According to Antot suggestions I significantly improved the main design of the class.
The access via an API should be really really simple something like Nuclides.get(Z,A,I) / Nuclide.get("C14") or equivalent is recommended.
We need an object that will hold all the Nuclides that we know and provide access to them.
The key for your Nuclides will be the State, which can be (and should be) implemented as a simple Enum.
[Remarks] This post is a follow-up question : Initial post
But, seriously, an external resource is much better.
When I look at your Nuclide constructor I see a nested set of three classes.
Especially fields/determineAtomicNumber/determineIsomericState :
The Nuclide class only contains enough information and does not repeat the static information in the Element.
So why not creating a single enum that holds constant properties for each chemical element, used as prototype to initialize a Nuclide for any of them?
He.name() or He.toString() will produce the same, so there is no need to add symbol field.
The lines might be shortened a bit with static imports, but are still quite annoying:
In the reviewed solution there is an array to store symbols as strings (Nuclide.SYMBOLS) and enums per each chemical element (H, He...), each wrapping data for nuclides.
You can call all the relevant Nuclide calculations from the Element or event the collection, thus encapsulating the detail while providing a simple nterface to the user/future coder.
It also allows you to build a constructor code set that can call information from an external file (noting that you don't want this at this point in time).
However, the core notion of this system is the chemical element, with a few constant values for different nuclides (symbol, atomic number) and with other fields varying.
The values associated with the elements are no more than their ordinal numbers, so exactly the same effect would be reached if it were defined as
Now, after all the refactoring applied since the initial question, let's  try to approach the design a bit differently, with the aim of simplifying the thing.
This also gives you flexibility to hard code calls to constructors.
The get(String) method (the former Nuclide.get(String)) does not use reflection any more and it is reduced to three lines!
Since there are about 3000 nuclides and if you cannot use a resource file (a CSV would be ok...), I'd suggest to split this instantiation in groups per elements.
And then change constructor and all nuclides enum like this :
This way, we can remove determineIsomericState and determineAtomicNumber methods and IllegalArgumentException are not needed anymore.
The ugly part is still the hard-coded data in initNuclidesRegistry().
I don't know the correct nuclear physics terms, so please excuse misnomers.
Once more I used Antot suggestion and I significantly improved this method via OOP and Regex :
Is it worth replacing SYMBOLS and STATES by enums ?
Each element can contain 0 or more Nuclides (Ok, in real life this would be 1 or more), so I see each Element containing a collection of Nuclide information.
Is there a much more flexible way to implement the entire thing using more OOP features ?
[Context] : I'm currently developing a program in nuclear physics and i would like to have a simple access to all nuclides.