In addition to validating your Regional Advanced Settings, be sure to check your Excel Advanced setting:
(dot) and list separator to , (comma) helped to maintain CSV in normal view in Excel in Norwegian computers.
This may not answer how to do it easily in Excel but it answers how to do it easily, especially as OP in the comments suggests using something other than excel would be an acceptable option.
After a little trial and error, I found a solution that opens every CSV file in the correct view.
(dot) and List Separator set to , (comma) BUT I was still having the display issues importing a CSV file exported from a different application.
I work extensively with data in various formats and very often need to send these data in Excel format to users.
However, I don't know what other repercussions this will have.
Apparently Excel uses a Windows 7 regional setting for the default delimiter for CSVs (which is apparently a tab by default).
Here is what worked for me in Excel 2013 with Windows 8:
if, say, Outlook uses tab-separated CSVs for importing/exporting contacts, and you receive such CSVs from an outside source (Gmail, another computer, whatever...), then changing this system-wide setting could prevent Outlook from opening these tab-separated CSVs.
LibreOffice Calc has a very advanced csv filter that lets you choose separators, formats and encodings.
But if you have another (likely Microsoft) program that also uses CSV files, and it normally uses CSVs formatted with a different delimiter, then this could be problematic.
For my system, the settings were already set to what others here have suggested (Decimal symbol set to .
Control Panel> Clock, Language, and Region> Region> Additional Settings> List separator set to , ; (comma AND semi colon) -> click "apply" and then see if that does the trick.
I suppose if all the CSV files on your computer are comma separated, then there shouldn't be any problems.
I use LibreOffice Calc to convert csv-files to the desired format, then save as xls.