I can give novices rules in specific instances like 'Almost always single-click when using a web browser'.
My rule of thumb is that if an icon has a checkbox it will need a double click.
It varies somewhat based on context and operating system, and the behavior can be redefined through settings or expanded by applications or utility software.
In many cases, they have been adopted by competing applications so you will find that they often work when you switch software.
When the cursor is an I-bar, it signifies that the cursor is over a text field.
Some applications software define additional, specialized uses for double click.
For the large part, a single click is all that's required, unless opening files.
However, the mouse controls can be optionally set to select just by hovering and open/run with a single click.
Those kinds of specialized uses for double-click are more in the nature of features of the software that you learn.
If an action needs to be performed (like opening a folder, or playing a movie) always double-click.
For example, double-clicking on text in some word processors selects a predefined amount of text, like a word.
However I can't think of any generic rules or suggestions to give them.
If you want to know what actions are available or intend to select an action other than the default one, right-click.
When teaching computer novices I notice that some always double-click when it isn't necessary or they ask 'How do I know when to single-click verses double-click?
It's worked for him and he doesn't get it wrong ever.
Left-click to select the option you require, or press "Esc" on the keyboard or click somewhere off the list to cancel it.
When the cursor is something rotating or spinning, it generally means the computer is working on something.
Excel and some other spreadsheets define special operations that can be done with a double-click depending on where it is done.
For example, double-clicking on a row or column boundary will resize automatically to accommodate the row or column contents.
Interacting with a computer is a lot like having a conversation.
If you're looking for operational options or additional actions to perform such as bring up a context menu for a file, or just the desktop context menu, right-click.
Click once to activate that field and begin typing to enter text.
Messages, options and menus (like "OK" and "Save") only require a single click.
I've taught my dad the difference using the following rule of thumb;
(which incidentally is the first use I have found for the checkboxes)
It's rare that double-clicking is required when browsing the Internet.
The default arrow means if you click (depress the large button on the left side of the mouse) once, the thing behind the cursor will be selected.
I've been using a computer for so long that I don't even think about whether to single or double-click which makes it difficult to explain.
Finally, there are other cursors when you use special programs like photo editors or games, that indicate which tool you currently have selected.
If you double-click (depress the left mouse button twice in rapid succession), you will activate the object's default action.
The cursor (the little image on the screen that moves in relation to your physical movements when manipulating the mouse's planar orientation against a flat surface) tells you a lot about what it's on-top of.
When the cursor is a hand with a pointing finger, it signifies that you are over an interactive object, such as a hyperlink.