As far as alternatives are going I do not know of any freely (as in libre) available tools that operate on a single hardware node.
Great if you need local copies of the data at all times.
If you are out to buy something I'd recommend some cheap home NAS.
These backups are available on any machine via a mapped network drive.
I'd like to add that simply mirroring a drive does not provide an adequate backup solution.
Have you considered just mirroring a drive for RAID1?
File replication (eg: rsync or RoboCopy) will give you two (or more) copies of your data at a very specific point in time spread over multiple spindles.
Works great on OSX and Windows (and I believe there's a Linux client too.)
If you're after availability, RAID's the way to go.
Additionally you can use this network drive for arbitrary file storage as well.
If you're looking for a backup solution, I'm partial to Symantec Backup Exec.
I don't see a reason why for your use case a pure software-raid is not perfect.
I use JungleDisk on a number of production machines and it's extremely affordable; you pay only Amazon's low S3 rates.
There is software RAID built into new versions of Windows and Linux.
There are a number of online backup solutions that make this rather painless.
The Pro version enabled features like fast differential backups for a few dollars a month.
My recommendation is to combine the two: Use a RAID to keep the environment running; replicate the contents to another disk to create offsite storage.
You might try one of them first, as the time and money investment for them is extremely low.
By virtue of mirroring or parity, the data can be regenerated onto a new disk under limited, well defined failure conditions.
While you phrased your question in terms of local RAID storage, the fact that you're sharing data between machines makes me wonder if you might be better served by an online backup/syncing solution.
RAID is an availability technique used to keep your server up when it throws a disk.
Dropbox http://getdropbox.com and JungleDisk http://jungledisk.com are two I can personally recommend.
We utilize the Desktop and Laptop Option to provide backups for end user machines.
For approximately 20GB of data storage a month, and considerable throughput, I pay something like $15.
JungleDisk is backed by Amazon's S3 storage service and is more geared towards backups.
The empty drive you are talking about is usually called a hot spare if I understand the question correctly
Dropbox is great for automagic syncing between computers.
If you're after redundancy, RAID or some form of file replication will solve the problem, albeit with caveats.
Data corruption can render that setup useless very quickly and with little-to-no warning.