I obtained a copy of CPUID HWMonitor and found that it was my CPU overheating.
I adjusted the Power Options -> Processor Power Management -> Maximum Power State down to 80% and my fan is back to being silent again.
When watching a movie or playing games, use the cooling pad.
the problem with SSD is that it will give the computer a false reading of its temperature.
This will give you a clue about what software on your laptop may be using your CPU and possibly causing your system to overheat, slow down and possibly crash.
and since then i have never had another overheating issue.
But turn off the hard disk temperature sensor because it will give a false reading to the CPU.
Do you have enough ram to handle games and videos properly?
There are free utilities available at CNET's website that will check for CPU usage when you are not playing games or watching videos.
I would suggest that to you as well as cleaning the whole computer often as they do get clogged with dust easily.
i then applied high performance thermal paste reinstalled the heat sink.
Also, many new laptops are loaded with bloatware ( software that may run inefficiently in the background ) which may be overworking your CPU.
I also installed the SSD to this day i am writing this post three years later and play very high graphics games on my PC and have NEVER HAD ANOTHER ISSUE.
I suggest getting a cooling pad and running speedfan.
Obviously, if I do something that requires 100% processor use, I will need to adjust it but for every day use, I cannot tell the difference.
and if the computer is detecting a overheated Hard Diskdrive (SSD) then it will run the fan at maximum rpm but the fan doesn't turn because the rpm value is unrecognized.
Swapping out my regular HD for a SSD cooled my HP HD16t down by 10 degrees.
I kn ow that his is a old post but wanted to chime I had a Dell xps 15 L501X and i to had overheating problems..  My fix was that i took my whole computer apart took the heat sink off of the CPU and cleaned the really bad thermal paste job that the factory installed.