Then ls -ld on the profile dir(whichh should be under ur home dir with a period(.)
I didn't find a documented solution anywhere, so I checked out the source code and here is a very relevant part:
You have a permission problem with your profile dir...check the permission.
Sorry for the 3 years late answer, I became interested in this topic just now and found this question.
However, we see that the username is being passed and that the username is being intiailized from the LOGNAME environment variable.
Alternatively, here is my full-fledged solution that you may want or not want to use:
If you already have an instance running, Firefox will reuse that.
Tested and worked for me with Mozilla Firefox from 2.x to 12.x
Verify other permission of that dir and change accordingly.
If an URL is passed in the command line, it always asks for a profile in which to open it, this is because I mainly click through from my chat and email program and in those case I want to always select a profile (google for calendar spam, facebook for birthday spam, etc.).
How to do this exactly depends on your GNU/Linux distribution.
I put this script as first in my path via multiple symlinked names, like x-www-browser, firefox, sensible-browser and put it in the BROWSER environment variable too.
If I tried adding "-no-remote" to my command, I get: "Iceweasel is already running, but is not responding.
Here, the nullptr at the end of the line unfortunately means that the profile argument is not being passed to the SendCommandLine function, therefore it's not possible to select the correct firefox window to send the openurl message to.
Did you copy or move it from anyother place(partition..disk..)?
Because if you open a profile without the correct LOGNAME set, than you won't be able to communicate to that profile anymore.
http://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/xre/nsAppRunner.cpp#1537
If you run the script without any parameter, it autoselects the default profile, but you can override it by setting FOX_PROFILE by hand in your shell.
To open a new window, you must first close the existing Iceweasel process, or restart your system."
in front of them..means you have to use "ls -al" to see it.
Of course you can change the logic to fit your style of usage, this is just an example, the important knowledge is the LOGNAME trick.
Become root and run top to see if it's running as root.
And of course you have to make sure that this wrapper script is the only way to start the browser on your machine.
I tested this with Firefox 26 on Linux and it works.
If you have Mozilla Firefox already open with the Default profile or anyother profile, try:
Based on this, I came up with the following solution: