a) many passwords are too simple, used only because the boss says they must.
You have to have a goal in mind; the basic goal of this kind of expenditure is to discover vulnerabilities in software, networks, processes, and procedures.
Research the security service provider, including checking references, not just certifications.
It's simple enough that you can perform a preliminary analysis yourself, then use it to fact-check the claims of teams that are trying to sell you their services.
They are not fool proof and from my experience there are a lot of false positives that takes a human to correctly interpret.
Third, invest most of your time and effort in the test before it occurs.
Security testing isn't "magic," and poor work habits are not an "eccentricity" that goes with the territory.
A person does NOT need to be "reformed" to have skill; don't exempt someone in this field from any background checks, criminal or otherwise, that you would hold your regular employees to.
I work with Small Businesses to help secure their environments and in general doing a "Vulnerability Assessment" or straight up Penetration Test is usually going to not provide a whole lot of information that you couldn't or probably have already gotten yourself.
What if an attacker gains access to a customer service computer or a contractor's computer.
Check out their papers on the Exploit Intelligence Project and Attacker Math.
The more you free the hands of the testing team, the better and more realistic results you'll get.
But if everything is simply just based on the scan results than I would say you are definitely not getting your money's worth.
Finally, don't buy into the hype over the word "hacker," especially with the "ethical" part attached.
There are certifications that indicate some basic level of skill, but opinions in the industry vary widely; let "ethical" be demonstrated by a person's behavior and references, not a certification.
Fourth, for penetration tests, make sure you're paying for a test that emulates a realistic threat.
All the above answers are really great and with many things there is no real definitive way to answer this Yes or No.
Trail of Bits even offers consulting in this and other areas.
(I am not affiliated with Trail of Bits in any way)
Get heavily involved in the negotiation of test scope.
This almost always means spending more money, whether on software, personnel, or insurance.
The various security services like penetration tests, vulnerability assessments, and "ethical hackers" are not simply "buying more security."
This is important: in order for an audit, assessment, or test to improve your security, you will need to do something about the findings.
A vulnerability scan with Nessus or Retina is not a penetration test; don't pay premium prices for cheap services.
A good tester will be able to tailor their assessment towards areas of unknowns in order to maximize your investment.
Second, and closely related, don't pay for information you already have.
Personally, I would assume I will be penetrated sooner or later, so I make sure I can detect any intrusion, and continue post-penetration.
It's already been said that you've probably done all that's necessary.
If you know you have a particular security problem, don't pay an "ethical hacker" to rediscover it.
These are just a few things off the top of my head, but looking frankly at these items and if you can't answer these than spend the time figuring out what to do about them.
The classic example is the IT troubleshooter using the password "test".
In my opinion, the black box style pentest that a lot of businesses want to use will not expose a lot of information that you do want.
For example, let's just say an attacker DOES, throughout whatever means, gets inside of your network.
How do you mitigate that threat and reduce the impact?
You have the right to expect the highest ethical responsibility and integrity of your security testers as any other position, if not more.
Working for a small IT company, budgets for an external audit can be difficult to come by, especially if there is no industry compliance at play mandating a yearly audit.
b) most (but not all) penetration now by-passes the tried and true bribery/blackmail and uses electronic methods of password acquisition -- but you cannot be penetrated until the password is there.
Do a black-box external penetration test, then an internal test simulating a disgruntled employee, then a targeted white/gray box test of your most critical systems, etc.
If it's not actionable information, why pay for it?
You should approach this from the standpoint that an attacker WILL be able to get inside your network.
Dan Guido of Trail of Bits has done some excellent research on intelligence-driven defense--knowing the threats your organization faces and optimizing your defenses to them, rather than just blindly spending money on what everyone else is doing.
If they don't have a repeatable process, you can't be assured of a thorough test.
Again, how paranoid do you need -- repeat, NEED -- to be?
Consider rotating between assessment types to maximize coverage.
There are lots of frauds and shoddy workers out there.
If you are hiring an outside company to do your pentest/audit/assessment or whatever you want to call it, you should be hiring people that can do more than just $scanner.
At the risk of being too basic, most penetration is achieved only after an appropriate password has been uncovered.
And if Social Engineering is not a part of the engagement, than you are leaving a huge hole in the companies threat surface.
One make of computer that I know of, probably others as well, has a conveniently placed dip-switch rack which can be used to disable the login password AND the BIOS password...
If the test is mandated anyway, be honest about your known vulnerabilities up-front.
First, what is the goal you are trying to achieve?
You should have someone on your staff whose responsibility is security; they should have the technical chops to call bullshit on security vendors as needed, and the integrity to track vulnerabilities and advocate for security improvements in all areas of your business.