Specifically .ppk key converted to be used in filezilla.
I have many instances spread across zones and grouped into various load balancers.
The same follows that the .ppk works on all other instances except the problem child... and also worked previously.
Someone before my time also decided it would be a good idea to hard code this IP into various applications in typical spaghetti code if else forest fashion... long story short, very important instance.
One of the groups is an "API" utilized by various different applications for common and secure tasks.
Finally after searching for hours on what to do about this I ran ssh -Tvvv -i path/file.pem user@ip and magically I had a debug connection to the instance.
In my experience, I learned to kill misbehaving ec2 instances with extreme prejudice.
In the API group we have one instance that uses an Elastic IP so that we can reliably use crons for tasks such as rsync etc.
I also recently cleared the known hosts on this machine.
The pem key works across ALL other instances, which have been around for relatively the same amount of time.
If you really need the data on that server you could always shut it down and mount the ebs volume onto another instance and from there perform recovery.
The machine I was able to connect with was restarted, and I can no longer connect with it.
I would like to reiterate that all converted keys are not working for sftp despite whether an ssh connection can be established.
This is the -v debug output of work machine that still will not establish a SSH connection.
All permissions on keys are identical across instances and machines connecting to instances.
Connected from a server at the office with no problem.
Here is -v debug output from a working machine (home machine)
I have done a lot of searching on this issue, and can not find anything particularly relevant.
Does anyone have any idea what can be done to correct this?
Two days ago I was suddenly unable to SSH to this guy (It was created over a year ago).
Today I can not SSH into the instance from my machine at the office, and all converted keys do not work on this instance either (i.e.
As your key works on your other instances and not on this particular instance, I would chalk it up as a messed up instance.
This is output from failed connection on home machine (yesterday) attempts using ssh -v -i path/file.pem user@ip