For example, MS04-028 documents some Microsoft software that could be vulnerable to certain JPEG files.
It is like a book that contains dangerous instructions, like how to make a bomb.
In reality, there is a possibility of problems if someone can manage to use a known flaw in whatever software you use.
Now, you may have noticed that I keep saying "in theory".
However, data combined with insecure software can lead to a computer performing undesirable instructions.
If the program that you're using has a bug, it may do a wrong action.
Presumably you're not extracting the data manually.
As long as it sites on the bookshelf, it's not really causing problems.
So, in theory, you should be able to extract files safely.
is my Computer compromised with a Virus, when extracting an archive like zip/rar/iso with WinRAR, which contains an (Virus-)downloader.exe even when i didn't start the executable?
You should be able to extract all sorts of dangerous data, but as long as it isn't used, or as long as it is only used in good ways, this should be safe to do without causing problems.
Maybe it is potentially dangerous, because somebody could pull the book off of the shelf and start using it.
Like any other data, the data can be carefully handled by skilled people and not cause trouble.
In theory, a virus is not a problem unless a computer is following the instructions.
Another example of this is that graphics files cannot harm a computer, in theory.
In theory, extracting a virus from an archive should not cause the instructions to be followed.
If someone discovers that bug, they might be able to create an archive file that results in the the bug being used to cause the extracting software to do something undesirable, like starting to run code.
However, just sitting there, the book probably has no effect.
Instead, you're using a piece of computer software (like the superior 7-Zip, or like WiZ or WinRAR) to extract the data.
A computer program is a series of instructions that the computer should follow.