No change at the partition table necessary, you even dont need anymore disk space (in case you want better performance, just boot from it and place your root system on partition on HDD)
It involves copying a Linux boot sector from somewhere, storing that as a file on the Windows drive, and then either editing boot.ini (or maybe this) for XP or using bcdedit for Vista/7.
Last partition will be ext3/4 for your Ubuntu install.
Well you can boot (at least some versions of) Linux with the Windows boot loader.
Based on your comments to your question, the issue is not modifying the partition table itself, but the MBR as a whole and what GRUB does to it.
I was able to complete a Ruby on Rails project while on vacation.
I've had flawless success with the following steps.
If you don't like virtualbox there are other options, such as virtual pc (MS), VMWare Player and VMWare Server.
1st partition should be 100mb NTFS flagged as boot.
Do you truthfully need the entire Linux environment for the PHP/Python development or possibly just the shell?
You really might want to try giving the dual boot option another go.
If you can't use a partition for linux I would go for a virtualized solution.
Other options would be to get a 4GB+ Thumb Drive and use UNETBOOTIN to create a bootable LiveCD with a persistence partition.
What we just did (because we just need a small system, and got no fitting spare HDD around): Install one system on a usb stick, and boot from there.
And aside from virtualized/emulated machines, I can't think of anything left really.
If just the shell you may want to check out MinGW and Cygwin for Windows.
This will allow you to install, store and reuse documents/programs with this bootable drive.
I had shared folders configured and mapped my host machine to a shared folder on the virtual environment.
Oh yeah: don't forget to create a partition for Linux swap too.
2nd will be your actual Windows partition, again NTFS and as large as you want.
If you could create a new partition with Windows, install Linux into it, and then boot that partition without GRUB, that would work, right?
I was able to run Windows 7 on a 1.6GHz Atom Netbook with 2GB RAM, Ubuntu 11.04 VirtualBox, and a Java-Based IDE application for my development work.
Also rather than using the partition management in the Windows installer you could grab a GParted Live CD and create all the partitions beforehand.