Last but not least: social interaction, when more than one human is involved there is an additional social "reward" for being creative: you can show it off.
Another idea is to give the players problems that have no obvious solutions and thus require the player to think, and to get creative, about it.
Basically the idea is you give people a toolbox, and the interesting side effects of the interactions between complicated pieces gives players an avenue for creativity.
First of all, loosen those rules, give a objective but give freedom on how to archive it.
Depending on your game, this can either be via screen captures, videos or sharing the save game files for other people to open up and explore.
Sharing with other people spurs people on to amazing amounts of creativity.
If you give people the freedom to be creative they'll be creative.
The end result is what some people call "user stories".
If you really want to add fuel to the creativity fire, allow people to share their creativity easily.
There is one requirement for creativity to really flourish among the masses: freedom.
A lot of games, like Draw Something, have started including the ability to share these user stories as part of the critical flow.
People need it to respond the way they expect and it has to do so consistently.
That's one reason Minecraft is insanely successful.
Several AAA games have started including screen-recording tools as part of the game as well.
The barrier to entry for those creative outlets is probably too high for the casual user, however.
Open world games with physics are notorious for having great user stories.
Now, don't be thinking that freedom is an easy thing to achieve.
This can be traced back to when we started wearing loincloths and drawing on the walls of caves (my theory is the loincloths making static in our brains, though these days we have nicer loincloths).
That is to say, they're experiences that people want to share as a result of their decisions and creativity in the game but aren't necessarily what the game designer is forcing the players to do.
Well, it's not so easy because the computer can't "judge" how "creative" you are.
So the question kinda is "How can one reward the player for beeing creative?
And of course there's the "add a level editor" aspect to it a la LBP, Trials Evolution, and Portal 2.
It doesn't have to be evaluated by the program itself.
(Example: Terraria, build rooms->get people, people drive the game forward.)
Everybody who has played minecraft has their story about what decisions they made and how they ended up dying.
The less precision the game requires the more room there is for creativity.
Gameplay is about rewarding (for example: allowing to play the next level) and punishing (for example: having to restart from the beginning of the level).
It has to be accessible and easy with complexity buried within.
(Example: Clonk, the settlement scenarios you often have to face such situations, be it a cave flooded with Lava or a big granite wall).
Next make "construction" a goal, it doesn't necessarily "requires" creativity, but it's connected to it to quite a degree.