So even if some other rigid body hits the sphere, it wont move until I remove a force.
What you're describing is fundamentally not a natural movement for the sphere.
The best way I can describe what I'm trying to do is like that science experiment where you take a ping-pong ball and use a blower to push just enough air to counter gravity and the ball seems to hover in place.
According to your needs there is only one thing is left, that is Is Kinematic attribute of Rigidbody.
In your case I wouldn't use a force to get it moving at all, but instead set the position / velocity directly on response to the key presses, and mark the object as kinematic.
With one key I apply a force in one direction to get it moving, but then when i press another key, I want to stop it and hold exactly in place by using an opposite force.
Another thing I tried was to take the spheres current force and constantly flip it from positive to negative every FixedUpdate but that didn't seem to work at all.
a cue ball on a pool table reacting to a non-existent cue that has struck it); but it's not required.
I am playing around with the Constant Force component and have a sphere constrained with a linear configurable joint (y-axis free).
It is common to have a single kinematic object, directly controlled by the player/user, which is causing interesting things to happy in your simulation.
My only difference is that my constraint is side to side instead of up/down.
Try to turn it on when you want to stop your body.
You're talking about applying unrealistic forces out of nowhere to get it into a specific position/velocity.
That's what kinematic objects are for - to be able to set those properties directly and then have the other objects in the simulation react to their unnatural movement.
- Set the collision object as IsTrigger, so it will not move if another object collide with it, and to maintain the object on the air, try this:
- Set it to Is Kinematic, so it will not move unless you explicit do it by code.
You may have problems when you try to have more than one kinematic object, or try to move it in a way that is so unrealistic it is beyond the ability of the physical simulation to cope, but if you are careful about how you move it, you're fine.
This may actually be more of a Physics.SE question but since im doing this in Unity I figured I'd ask here.
Unfortunately, Unity doesnt allow more than one constant force on a gameobject (probably a good reason, not sure exactly) and I know if I do a net force, that it would just end up being 0, which would kind of work but the sphere would move if it gets hit.
I know the quick and easy way would be to just set velocity to zero, but I see tons of comments saying that modifying velocity directly breaks the physics, is bad form, etc.
Moving objects only by applying forces to them is great, when you want even the initiating object to move naturally (e.g.