Plus your description sounds like every overloaded UPS I have ever seen.
If this is the case, it cannot survive the 3-5 mS that it takes a typical UPS to switch over to batteries.
Try a 1000W UPS I'm 99% sure that will work for you.
I assume your power supply is an HP 460W CS HE Gold Power Supply.
For example, it could hold a lower voltage of +/- 90V for a longer step time, or a higher voltage of 100V for a shorter step time.
It´s a Problem with the HP Powersupply it is too sensitive and the server turns off
We´ve got the same Problem with a APC Smart UPS SC1000.
Modern PFC power supplies draw power at the top(bottom) of each sine wave, so as to draw less current than old-style transformer power supplies that draw large current amounts during the low voltage portion of the sine wave (leading and trailing edges).
The average delivers the wattage advertised, assuming all is working to spec.
It's the "approximated sine wave" that the HP Gen6 servers don't like.
If you don't have the equipment to discern the problem, call HP and Eaton each and ask them if the other equipment is qualified to work together.
You should not "disconnect" a UPS from the wall plug while it is online carrying the critical load.
Either way all HP hotplug supply's are redundant, that means two actual units inside the supply so 460+460=920, and it is just barely overloading your UPS.
Doing so remove any Neutral and/or Grounding reference and it may (or may not) causes problems depending on UPS or Load type.
A typical UPS output looks like a square wave, with positive and negative components, and a short zero component in between.
So, the UPS is delivering the power, but the Power Supply is just not seeing it.
If you tested the UPS on other PC's this definitely what the problem is.
If the voltage of UPS "modified sine wave" is not high enough, some modern power supplies just don't see the "top" of the "sine wave" and shut off.
Assuming your server was not plugged into any "surge protection" (non-UPS) plugs on the UPS.
Exactly how the UPS matches the equivalent power of a true sign wave is up to the implementation.
The power supply's Power Factor Correction (PFC) might not be compatible with the "Modified Sine Wave" output of the UPS.
Your power supply could have a defect and poor hold up time.