The files that start with ._ are used to store metadata like extended attributes and ACLs.
Sometimes (but not always) the resource you can manage without the resource fork data - for example copying an mp3 file.
AppleDouble files (the ones named ._filename) are created when you copy a file containing a resource fork to a non-HFS file system.
This also includes meta-data created by/for Spotlight, such as when iTunes plays a file.
There is a tool called "dsweeper" available here: https://github.com/simsalabim/dsweeper
Unlike .DS_Store files (which, as I understand, store desktop details such as icon location, etc.
You can suppress the resource fork copying if you use a shell (not finder) by using:
You can see extended attributes with xattr -l or ACLs with ls -le.
You can use xattr -c to clear all extended attributes or chmod -N to delete ACLs, and you can copy files without extended attributes with cp -X.
Extended attributes include resource forks (com.apple.ResourceFork) and file flags (com.apple.FinderInfo).
HFS+ filesystems (designed by Apple) have native means to address the storage of this information.
So my conclusion is that you probably don't actually want to delete .AppleDouble.
http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1629 tells me that this can be done via
-name ._\* -delete to delete ._ files recursively under the current directory.
.AppleDouble files are created to store additional file resources (meta-data, etc.).
This is achieved by creating additional files on the filesystem, since the filesystem does not have native means for storing the information.
Please let me know if there are further details not addressed in my conclusions here.
You can use BlueHarvest to automatically delete AppleDouble files or other files created by OS X:
I think part of the question is: why do you want to eliminate .AppleDouble files?
Via homebrew, the installation is remarkably simple:
I arrived at this thread attempting to help my Dad with two ReadyNAS; he wanted to eliminate the files because their existence was inexplicable and causing strange behavior with the ReadyNAS backup program (which seems to be solved by using rsync).
This means that you can probably delete the .AppleDouble files and the OS won't complain, but you may well lose meta-data if any is associated with the file.
), .AppleDouble files actually store potentially relevant information.
It solves the problem (once installed) with a simple
Deleting this information is unlikely to hurt anything, but it is being created/stored for you so that the OS can optimize search and other terms.