To do this I would look at the database metadata which would be part of the database structure itself.
To answer the question of will you get the same results running an analysis such as Brent's sp_Blitz scripts in a non-production environment the answer will lie in what information you are trying to gather and what that information depends on.
A DMV is at high level just an abstraction layer that provides a view of the instrumentation that SQL Server has running.
Brent's sp_IndexBlitz also performs this same check and will provide the usage details based on the settings specified.
Using a combination of this data I could then determine if this index is making inserts run slower or is a benefit to select performance in a way that justifies its overhead.
1) Suppose I am interested in analyzing the indexes in the database to determine if I have duplicate indexes.
In this case the results should be the same regardless of environment because the data that is being queried to draw the conclusion is part of the physical database structure.
Hopefully the above examples have provided some clarity around when and why you would have differences between the environments.
To further clarify on the "why would data be different" which seems to be a sticking point here lets dig in to what DMVs are.
From TechNet sys.dm_db_missing_index_details emphasis mine.
This is mentioned in Microsoft's documentation as shown below:
To do this I would examine the DMV (sys.dm_db_index_usage_stats) to determine if the index in question has any scans, seeks, lookups or updates.
For this reason when you perform a backup and restore it is functionally equivalent to a server restart for the purposes of the discussion around DMVs.
Take the two examples below as a means of showing the difference in results (or no difference) based on the type information sought.
Brent's sp_IndexBlitz does this as one of the steps in its analysis, among others.
In this case though the data will be different in results between production and the non-production environment unless the exact same workload and configuration is running in both environments.
With this being said as mentioned by Tony when SQL Server restarts the data that is within these DMVs is not persisted.
Once the database has been decoupled from the original host of this instrumentation data the data would be lost unless it was persisted elsewhere.
2) Suppose I am interested in analyzing an index to find out if the index is utilized.