They don't expect any sort of specific input or output device.
However, almost every part of the computer is in some way an input/output device.
C/C++ just doesn't say/care what those devices are, but it does assume some facility exists.
At some point during the construction, a programmer must input (even if only once) the program, otherwise the device will do nothing.
They are not required for the computer to function.
Unless your program is meant to merely burn cycles or halt the system in an endless loop, it's eventually going to use functions meant to write to stdin or stdout.
Just because a system doesn't have a keyboard, mouse, or monitor does not mean it has no other I/O devices, as you realize.
It's arguable to what extent the standard libraries are "part" of C/C++ but you aren't going to have a serious program without standard C/C++ libraries or other libraries that are the equivalent.
If you consider network input/output, then yes, useless.
On the same note: neither do programming languages.
Things that aren't visible unless the machine can be taken apart can also be considered I/O devices, such as onboard flash.
GCL (Guarded command language) does not even have a command to output anything.
Your very first computers were batch processing machines that were programmed to a single task and did this task for each input (i.e.
For a computer to even run a program, it needs to communicate with ROM and RAM.
They are pretty useless without any output device though.
Pretty much any system is like this, whether electrical systems, wastewater systems, etc.
It performs some server functionality and I remote into it occasionally.
Computers are systems designed to receive input, process it, and create output.
Many servers operate without a keyboard, mouse, monitor, and other HIDs attached to them.
It would be utterly pointless to create computers without means of feeding them instructions.
There may be a setting on your system to "Halt on Errors: All, But Keyboard" that you need to set.
Even the computer cases have thermometers that take input in the form of temperature and output that data to the computer.
The CPU, RAM, bus, hard drive, DVD drive, etc, takes some form of input and outputs data.
One can consider this rather integral function an I/O operation - some CPUs really don't make a difference between addressing RAM and I/O from their point of view.
I have a computer in my closet that's been running for years with no input or output devices connected (technically speaking).
Your motherboard and all major operating systems will run fine without a keyboard (you can unplug it after the BIOS hands control to Windows and Windows won't care).
So really for a CPU, the "most" essential part of a computer, to do its thing, I/O is a must.
No, computers do not need an input or output device.
Ergo, computers must have some sort of "input" capability, even if it happens before any instructions are executed.
Otherwise, given my example above, the computer has no input or output and it's quite useful.
A mouse and a keyboard are input devices, but they fall into the category of human interface devices (HID).
I +1'ed Hennes answer, but I want to add it all depends on the definition of a input/output device.
punched cards), and then stopped when the input ended.
So it all comes down to how you define input/output.