Normally, memtest loads CPU for several of the tests to almost 100%.
As the your computer is crashing quite frequently and you have run a few passes, It's probably not your RAM.
(Most modern BIOS's also have a built in HDD testing feature)
I'd imagine that some errors only pop up as the memory modules heat up, thus causing problems with memory running at a high voltage.
As a next step, you should test you hard drive and then CPU with a tool such as Ultimate Boot CD or Hiren's.
I have seen RAM pass the first 6 passes of memtest and then fail subsequent passes, and when running a Linux OS with that RAM would see locking up after a 6-8 hours.
The longer it takes to find the issue, the more subtle it is and the less likely it is the cause a problem with your PC (but you should still get new ram if you get even one error)
I've run memtest and seen 6 passes with no errors, with 4+ errors per pass after that.
If it passes that confirms both that slot and RAM module are good and I can (more) confidently use that slot to test other RAM modules.
90% of the time, if the RAM has a problem, memtest will find it within 10 seconds, 99% of the time, one pass will be enough to find the issue.
1) If there are issues due to overheating of either CPU or memory.
If I see at least a single red error, I start looking for what should be removed / fixed before using the hardware.
Given that, after one pass, it displays Pass complete, no errors, press Esc to exit, I always assumed that's sufficient.
I usually run memtest EVERY TIME I change CPU, memory or notice odd issues.
Other RAM on the same motherboard ran fine, so apparently the failing RAM was temperature sensitive.
Most of the tests read & write at all locations of the memory.
Dell computers with diagnostic lights) I run memtest on one RAM module at a time in the first slot for 8-16hrs.
I normally just run 3-4 passes, but it's certainly possible to miss errors by doing just a couple of passes.
The rate at which is find errors is by necessity inversely proportional to how broken the RAM is.
a weak power supply or bad capacitors cause too many spikes offsetting random bits.