There is a slideshow with speaker notes as an overview, tips and tricks for using recursion, and sample problems with solutions.
If you do want the student to complete x number of problems, you can verify completion by having her either print out her progress while logged in or share her account with you so you can see what has been completed from the teacher view.
I'm a bit surprised this hasn't come up already, but CodingBat has a handful of recursion exercises in Java ranging from the most basic to some that are quite challenging.
But if the second person also has blue eyes the first person will NOT leave the island on the next ferry.
Another very handy resource is, inevitably, Stack Overflow: this question also provides some information, but it is rather specific.
The nice thing for an instructor is that students can log in to track their progress.
It usually takes quite a while until everyone accepts the solution, but I have received good feedback by many students who agreed that it convinced them that there are cases where recursion makes them able to solve a problem that otherwise they couldn't.
Now there is a guest on the island, and since he enjoyed his stay he makes a speech when he is about to leave, and as a joke he thought that he gave them a "hint" that contains only information that they already know, so he tells them that there is at least one person with blue eyes on the island.
Persons without blue eyes change the trivial case as much as stones or trees.
The language in question is C, but any student who knows Java will find the syntax familiar.
Given that they see 99 people with blue eyes everyone must assume that they might be the only one with a different eye color.
Since I teach CS50 AP, I make use of CS50 Study which has a page dedicated to recursion here.
The way to deduce fron the simple case to a more complex one is to look at the situation with two people on the island, because each of the two persons is observing one person, so each is looking at the trivial case.
That can only mean that they were seeing a person with blue eyes (otherwise they would have had to behave like the trivial case), so when there are two people with blue eyes they both observe that the other one is not leaving on the next ferry and they are both leaving on the second ferry.
Sorry for another answer that doesn't fully answer your question, but I have found that the following explanation helps some students so much that they need less practical excercises to understand recursion.
In this riddle the trivial case would be if there was only one person living on the islane.
A rather simple search leads to a very informative site:
In that case when they were told that there was at least one person with blue eyes it would have to be that one person and they would leave the island on the next ferry.
Additionally, on YouTube the Computerphile video on recursion is excellent as a supplement to this page.
The site doesn't have much in the way of a tutorial (other than solutions to the first two exercises), so it's mainly useful as a practice tool.
A student with some programming experience might just need a brief tutorial.
It is very thorough, and explains many use-cases for recursion.
On this island there is the rule that anyone who finds out that they have blue eyes must leave on the next ferry (there's one ferry per day), so each of the 100 inhabitants doesn't know their eye color.
There are two sections of problems: Recursion-1 and Recursion-2.
One of the two persons will see that there is no person with blue eyes in sight and will have to deduce that they are the one person with blue eyes.
When I explain it as a technique for problem solving I give one riddle as an example, because at least for me and everyone I have talked to this riddle is so complicated to answer that you need to simplify it using recursion.
Once you have understood that you can extrapolate to 100 people who will have to leave after 100 days when they observe that no one left after 99 days.
Instead of staying there, one can navigate to the Related Questions section, and from there choose a promising question (usually the one with the highest votes, but not always) and reading it.
In the situation with two people there are two possible outcomes: if one of the two has non-blue eyes then the other person is performing the trivial case, because it doesn't matter whether they are the only person on the island or if there are other persons without blue eyes.
Often times, google is our best of friends (I hope).
Since you don't speak about eye color on that island the situation stays like that.
On an island there are 100 people, each with blue eyes.
Now as I said the only way I can argue about an answer is by using recursion, because for recursion you need two things: a trivial case and a way to deduce a more complicated case from the trivial case.
Maybe you already know it, some people consider it the most difficult riddle there is.