Most of the time additional tuning of Mac OS X is unnecessary, as long as the regular maintenance scripts are running properly.
If it's still a bit sluggish consider adding more RAM and upgrade to an SSD drive.
It makes available a whole lot of hidden preferences, but also makes it easy to revert to defaults if you do something silly.
If your OS feels unusually sluggish, it may be a problem with a process you don't know is running (like mdutil indexing for spotlight search), lots of disk thrashing due to a memory shortage, or perhaps some misconfiguration is causing lots of errors.
status, clean the spotlight index, clean DS_stores, clean system caches, and more.
It'll sort out mismatched permissions on files installed by Installer and can solve a fair amount of odd behaviour - it does no harm to get into the habit of doing it every few months.
Although mainly for eye candy rather than performance tuning, TinkerTool is a good start.
I would check the Console application to see if there are unusual messages.
Along with the other good suggestions, I've found that the main thing that slows down my Mac are simply things that start up when I log in.
Open up Disk Utility (in /Applications/Utilities), select your start up disk and click the repair permissions button.
However, Maintenance does have system cleanup stuff as well.
Apple have deliberately minimised the amount of tuning you can (or need to) do from the GUI, so most other stuff will need a separate application or will require delving into the Unix underpinnings.
And use the Activity Monitor to check if some process is taking up too much processor time.
The best app for discovering these things has been the Consultant's Canary.
Another good place to look for power user tips with OS X is Mac OS X Hints.
A good, but simple, Mac clean up is repairing permissions.
Onyx is pretty good and can also tweak hidden system settings, which Maintenance can't, but Maintenance is strictly focused on system cleanup, running scripts, and deleting unneeded files, kinda like CCleaner.
The documentation also explains EVERY feature it has.
A little thing that pops up a Terminal window and lists out all the different things that may be starting up when you log in or when certain apps launch (i.e., browser plugins).
I'd recommend giving Maintenance a whirl, and looking at Onyx if you need something that's not in Maintenance or if you also would like to enable hidden system features.
The best way to increase performance is to buy more ram and/or a solid-state drive.
It can repair permissions, rerun system cleanup scripts, verify volumes, check S.M.A.R.T.
It has all sorts of hints on the more arcane features of OS X, and I'm sure there will be several on tuning for performance.
I highly recommend Maintenance, from the makers of Onyx.