I need to listen to audio files in short looped fragments (useful for transcribing).
Set up some custom shortcuts inside the program for skipping forward/back and pausing/playing.
It also outputs in tons of different formats, so while you may not want an exact subtitle file it's not that hard to get it to a format you can use.
I have switched from using Youtube (as I described in my previous answer) to using Transcribe  It works much better, in my opinion, and has a very nice auto loop feature that might suit your needs.
Just make sure you don't use the automatic transcript feature.
I'm not sure what you mean by looping, but I will tell you how I type transcripts.
I have found a few apps that let me define regions (VLC, Audacity) and that let me play these regions in a loop, but there is no easy way to move the looped region over so I can keep listening to the file.
I would suggest reading through all the keyboard shortcuts to see if there is something that really grabs your attention.
Another easy way is to use the period and comma to change your start playback position, and just press Space when you want to start from that position again.
The video automatically pauses as you type, and the transcript and the video (or audio file) stay in sync with each other.
You can also select and copy the whole text you've typed to insert in some other program, such as MS Word.
Here are some instructions: https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734799?hl=en
I have found two alternatives, but they are not ideal, so I was wondering if anyone knew of a better one.
(Uses windows media player or VLC as its backend media player)
It takes a very long time to upload the video or audio file to youtube, but it's worth it.
The "Selection Extend Right" (Shift+Right) and "Selection Contract Right" (Ctrl+Shift+Right) might be a quick way to scoot your selection window based on the zoom level, and then Shift+Space to loop play.
Learning some of the keyboard shortcuts for the transport and edit menus can really speed things along.
After trying several different pieces of software, I discovered that Youtube has something built in that works really well for me.
https://github.com/SubtitleEdit/subtitleedit/releases
Also make sure you have set the file to "private."
I am fairly certain that the program will accept audio tracks as well even though it is designed for video.
Their website says you don't need to be connected to the internet while you are looping.