So when you are logging in remotely outside your network use the address of your WAN ip...in your case the 121.54 number making sure to append the 8080
Read: Trying to connect to the router using 121.54.x.x:8080 should not work from the devices with a green IP.
Your modem is set to NAT mode, where you really want BRIDGED mode.
I am reading your setup in two possible ways: First of all the classic setup
Is you Asus router you only device and does it plug directly into the ethernet jack of your fibre/DSL-modem?
No idea how to change modes (NAT/BRIDGED) on modem since you didn't specify.
If WAN is 192.168.1.x, change your router to serve 192.168.2.x, that way you can connect to the modem's 192.168.1.1 (typically) address.
(or worst case, you might be doing an extra NAT layer at home and the ISP may be doing that).
This picture has your LAN network in the 192.168.1.0/24 range and uses 121.54.x.x for your public WAN IP.
You may have to change the subnet of your router if it's the same on both sides (WAN/LAN).
Some routers have an option which forbids wireless access even from inside the LAN.
Regardless if they are wired (as the desktop and the server in the picture) or wireless (e.g.
But have a look, often there's an admin/user code on bottom of modem (typically DSL modems) which can be used to log in and adjust settings.
Is that a normal modem or a complex device which also tries to do NAT?
Though router has its own feature to enable web access, to other router brands it takes no effect even though you enabled the web access.
In that case the second router might actually be in your home rather than at your ISP.
In that case you approach from 'the red side' and you need to use 121.54.x.x:8080.
a server at a university, some random PC at work, and maybe even from your iPhone using GPRS or its successors.
This is shown by you having a 192.168.x.x address on your WAN.
You should be able to test this via any normal computer on the Internet.
Or maybe the ISP is using a webproxy and whatismyip.com answers with the IP of the proxy?
Caveeat: Many mobile networks use an extrea layer of NATting and this may interfere.
Are they actually different from the IPs used on the WAN?
WAN ip and public ip are the same thing albeit different terminology.
The opposite is try when you try to to connect from the outside (the WAN side) of your router.
This address can only be used internally and many routers dont support access via the WAN address from inside your network.
Taking your question literally it sounds like you are trying to access the router remotely via your private ip address..192.168.x.x.
Mobile phones and thus not a good object to test with.
You usually can not connect to the router from the inside using the outside IP.
Look at your WAN gateway, then open that address in a browser.
When on your LAN your devices should connect to the router via 192.168.1.1:8080.
Alternatve, you used the right description and actually have 192.168.x.x.