As they dry out they loose capacity ( and capacitance).
After replacing the caps it will probably run fine.
Also: Many of these devices run Linux (mine runs openwrt).
I've had the same experience as you - I've been through numerous WAP/routers over the years.
During the last few years, there has been a lot of nearby construction and power sags and outages have become relatively common.
We had this type of problem with Linux based firewalls in our data center.
It seems that the WRT54GL has been better since it was replaced.
I never was able to track down what kind of resource limit was being hit, but adding RAM helped and finally a substantial hardware upgrade (running the same software) has fixed the problem completely.
The best way to assess the best wifi channel to use, is to use something like netstumbler (or whatever is the latest).
My current Linksys WRT54G is several years old, and now it needs to be rebooted about twice a week.
There are websites dedicated to the problem of "bad caps", which are cheap (generally) Chinese sourced parts that fail early (1 year).
I'd make sure you have the correct specifications (as in enough equipment) to support this, if wireless communication is a requirement for business-critical traffic in your environment.
When making extended temperature range kit (military/aerospace) the solution is to use tantalum capacitors instead.
I would suspect that like a lot of hardware , the electrolytic capacitors have dried out.
They are filled with wet paste that makes the electrolyte: this makes the capacitor have such high capacity.
At home, it is mostly the neighborhood wifi in use, Microwaves, and things like cordless phones, wireless home theatre speakers etc.
If the power goes completely out (and stays off for a few seconds), then comes back on, things are OK, but other power problems cause lockups or other strange problems (returns pings, but won't route).
They also have a scary failure mode where they explode after a while generally weeks , when installed backwards.
I expect it's a matter of dust building up inside and maybe tin whiskers on the components.
Or trying to use Wireless-N and check if the issue still persists.
If the lights flicker, often my computer will keep going, there is a 50% chance that the coffee maker's clock will reset, but there is about a 90% chance that the WRT54GL will lockup.
The more traffic you push through a typical Linux device, the more likely you are to run out of some type of kernel resource (slots to keep track of TCP or NAT sessions,  process handles, etc.).
I assume a UPS would fix the problem, but just I haven't gotten around to trying it.
Sure there are cases where access points (or any kind of device) just gives out due to temperatures, static, bad signals, northern lights, etc... but talking about wireless, I think it's more common for this kind of network to start becoming less reliable due to heavy loads.
(Probably need to replace the ones in the power pack as well.)
regardless of manufacturer, running hot they will last only 3-5 years.
When we moved into our house 8 years ago, our power was rock solid for several years and my Linksys WRT54GL never missed a beat.
Specially if you don't have the required policies (features or capabilities) in the Access Point(s) or controller to prioritize and/or shape said traffic.
Many of these small devices have a hard time with power sags and brownouts.
I'd really reconsider the use of wireless for a network where bandwidth is heavily demanded.