don’t generate (and enter into the pricing sheet) any number
(or so) values will drift away from the desired average,
And you know who the 100th winner is – it’s the sad guy who’s standing in the crowd,
It is not theoretically possible to generate a random (or even pseudo-random) list with a fixed average because this requires that the later values depend on the earlier values and could even force you to go back and change some of the earlier values in some cases.
I am wondering if anyone knows if there is a way to use the RANDBETWEEN function to generate a series of random numbers in Excel but also make those random numbers come out to equal a specified average.
But, at least, all of the values should have symmetric distributions.
By the time the final ticket is pulled out of the hat, there’s only one ticket there.
Naturally, the winning tickets are not put back into the hat after being drawn,
and then randomly selects a ticket from the hat to decide who wins a prize.
The following is the general implementation for the four-row example I gave earlier.
But G1:G10 always add up to 500; i.e., the average is 50.
I would be using this to fill out a pricing sheet, so for example, if I use RANDBETWEEN to fill out 100 rows and I need the average to be $50 I know that I could fill out the rows by using RANDBETWEEN(25,75) and drag it through the 100 rows but it won't necessarily come out to the average price I need.
Consider a lottery in which the sponsor sells a bunch of tickets (let’s say 100),
Solving 68+70+v3+25=200 yields v3=200−(68+70+25)=37,
So v2 is uniformly distributed over the range 25-75,
resulting in a single ticket winning more than one prize, which is against the rules.
I generated 100 random numbers between 25 and 75, and I recalculated 250 times,
forcing the last few values to the extreme numbers at the ends of the range,
If you’re interested in pursuing this issue, you might want to ask it on Math Stack Exchange – they eat questions like this for breakfast.
because that would allow them to be selected again,
Now suppose that there are 100 prizes – everybody wins something.
(The images are links to full-sized versions of themselves.)
Naturally, pressing F9 causes Excel to recalculate the sheet
every contestant has an equal chance of winning that 100th prize.
so that subsequent winners can come only from the pool of non-winners,
But, starting at v92, something interesting starts to happen:
And the logic for constraining the probability distribution is simple:
You want the average to be 50, so the total will need to be 4×50=200.
Let n be 100, the number of random numbers, and hence the number of rows.
I find it easier to think of the goal as achieving a specified total
The selection is constrained to the point of being pre-determined.
waiting for his name to be called; the last remaining non-winner.
It looks like the last few v values have non-uniform distributions.
Note that I had to change the scale at v94 and beyond:
the winner of the 100th prize is determined by the winners of the first 99.
Up through v91, the distributions look fairly uniform:
the sponsor draws the first prize winner, then the second, and then the third.
as a mechanism of reaching the goal of not awarding multiple prizes to any single ticket.
Therefore, all selections after the first are constrained.
This sounds like a job for VBA, but I found a worksheet-formulas solution.
I guess that, as n gets larger, it becomes more likely that the first n−10
it must be what’s left over after the first n−1 choices have been made.
Does anyone know if this is possible to amend allowing me to stipulate that average?
Then I charted the frequency distributions for several of the v values:
I’m having trouble doing the math for this question for n > 2.
This is analogous to the situation with the 100th lottery ticket;
to make the bounds of the desired probability distribution (25 and 75) parameters;
For example, suppose that you want only 4 numbers instead of 100.