A Swap Memory is a space in the Hard Disk of your computer that Operating Systems will use to put the info that is actually on the RAM to free it for another application.
It is running 8 virtual servers using OpenVZ virtualisation, without problems either.
While it is not in memory, though, the OS can use that memory for something else, like disk cache.
Fortunately, memory is really really cheap these days.)
To stop processes from using swap — install more RAM.
Unfortunately, if you ever run out of memory, the Linux kernel will kill some of your running processes in order to free up some memory for use.
I have a server with 256Mb of RAM and does not use swap memory.
It is (relatively speaking) very slow, but stops computers from crashing when they are trying to deal with more data then their RAM can handle.
(Swap is useful because applications that aren't being used can be stored on disk until they are used.
To find out where Swap space (or virtual memory) you can go to Task Manger (CTRL+ALT+DEL) and turn on from VIEW -> COLUMNS -> VIRTUAL MEMORY.
If your app is "using swap", then you either need to use less memory or buy more RAM.
If you run out of physical memory, you use virtual memory, which stores the data in memory on disk.
Then they can be "paged in" and run normally again.
Also here is an instruction how to see it if you are running Vista:
If you do not want your processes to use swap-memory, just disable swap memory altogether.
I have a laptop with 768Mb of RAM that does not use swap memory.
Now just calculate the difference between memory usage and virtual memory.
If you have sufficient RAM for your system, you can actually go without swap memory.
http://www.ehow.com/how_5067693_increase-swap-space.html
(Exchanging data between real memory and virtual memory is "swapping".
This should be done when the system needs memory for a new process and there is none, so we can see that if our system has plenty of RAM it will maybe need no SWAP memory.
So it's a very useful feature, but if you don't have enough physical memory to run your program, you definitely need more memory.
Reading from disk is several orders of magnitude slower than reading from memory, so this slows everything way down.