I've been trying to get internet on my RPi zero and found this list of adapters for usb
I have the Pi connected to my laptop as a network device and I access it via SSH.
Can't comment on whether this is a good solution but I'm able to SSH in and work on the command line with no noticeable performance problems.
The board has a PCB Antenna and does not require and Cable or Connector.
Then the Plugable adapter works with no extra work, you just plug it and the power in and everything works.
I found the link here was the easiest and quickest, set a static IP for the USB0 network connection and it works perfectly for SSH to the Zero when plugged into USB on my laptop and desktop.
Checkout  HubPiWi - an add on board for Pi Zero with 3 USB Ports and an integrated Wifi with on board Antenna.
These higher end modules have a couple of additional benefits, while still costing less than $10, they contain an ADC something the Pi does not, they also breakout all of the pins from the ESP chip.
You may want to spend a few more dollars and go with one of the higher end ESP8266 models.
This creates a remote port forward to a proxy server (find one on http://proxylist.hidemyass.com/ or similar site) on the port 1234.
The next step is to add APT proxy to file /etc/apt/apt.conf (create if not found) and write the following line:
A typical use of HubPiWi will be to add a Keyboard, a Mouse and a Camera on the three USB ports.
If cheapest was the only requirement I would go with an ESP8266-01 WiFi module like this one.
http://plugable.com/2015/12/10/ethernet-for-the-raspberry-pi-zero/
For me, the cheapest and easiest way to get Ethernet to the Zero was over USB to my host.
There are a few tutorials covering how to use these with the Pi:
On windows 10 it does come up as a USB serial port, you have to specify the Acer RDNIS driver but after that works great under windows as well.
I set up the sd card on a raspberry pi 1 because it was simpler to setup that way (I gave it a static ip by editing /etc/dhcpcd.conf)