And turned on all of the features that seemed appropriate.
Click on the sites icon, click on default web site and you should see the folder that you created in there.
If I configure a binding to 'mysite' then in order to access the app with that host name, I still need to make an entry on the local hosts file or a CNAME alias in the DNS server.
http://blogs.msdn.com/charlie/archive/2009/04/08/publishing-an-asp-net-web-application-in-iis.aspxlink text
Right click on the folder, and select convert to application.
This technet article describes a 401.1 problem when trying to browse the site.
Keep an eye out for source of W3SVC or anything referencing ASP.NET.
Second open your visual studio and publish the application, you will need to browse to the path of where that folder is that you just made.
Make sure that you have a file called default.aspx in the site somewhere so that the browser will automatically load up the site.
And after looking at this I went through the IIS settings in program files.
Third, go to your admistrative tools, open up the IIS manager.
You should now be able to go to http://localhost/reportingFolder/ in your web browser and the webserver should render the site.
I am saying that because you are trying to publish to the same server.
If you find an error research it to get to the source of the problem.
You also want to confirm that the app is started via the IIS Manager.
asp.net was not turned on before which makes me wonder how this works in debug in VS2008?
Check Bindings for your app in the IIS Manager, what does it say?
I have not made a setup project in VS2008 and may try that too.
First navigate to your inetpub folder and inside that folder make a folder for your reporting website.
Start up Visual Studio as administrator and select the Publish to local machine
http://support.microsoft.com/kb/896861  While this may not be your problem you should still take a look at a possible security issue due to loopback check.
Review this article for help editing the file: http://www.windowsreference.com/windows-7/edit-hosts-file-in-windows-7-windows-vista/ .
If you're using your local machine as your webserver, then this is what you can do to make it work.
Since it sounds like you want the simplest option, I would go with a hosts file entry.
It sounds like you may have configured Host Headers, but did not make an entry in your hosts file or DNS server.
Additionally you will want to review the System event log in the event viewer for warnings and errors in the relevant time frame.