I was able to do this years ago with a bridged network adapter, but that doesn't seem to work here, as I am in a corporate network.
So I set up a bridged network adapter with default settings in VirtualBox.
I was first running a solution where I had both a NAT and a Host-only adapter configured in VirtualBox, which was fine for accessing the guest from the host and for accessing the Internet from within the guest.
When firing up the VM, I first saw that I don't have Internet access, and running ifconfig gives:
EDIT: I found out that the bridged connection works when using another network, not the corporate one.
If you wish to get into more detail, that is from the "Network Address Translation (NAT)" section under "Virtual networking" in the VirtualBox Help file.
Sadly, I'm not familiar enough with IPv6 to tell if your VM is picking up it's own IP or not, so I'll just say that the way a bridged connection works is the VM requests it's own IP, essentially making it so that your physical machine has 2 IPs on the network.
I want a virtual machine guest running Ubuntu (on VirtualBox) for various web development test servers (running on different ports, e.g.
I am not fully sure whether its because something is misconfigured or whether its because the corporate network doesn't allow such things - I don't get any help from the IT department either...
That being said, it is possible to set up "port forwarding" for the NAT network mode in VirtualBox.
I can also access the guest server from other devices.
If the corporate network has disabled DHCP like they most often do, or if they have restricted IPs in another way, you will have to get the VM it's own IP to function in the way you are looking for.
There is a nice little GUI to help you with this under the advanced networking settings for your VM.
This way, when your physical machine is hit with a request at the port you specify, your machine passes it on through to your VM.
As you can see, no ipv4 is available, and I cannot ping or request anything from outside the guest.
Now that I want other devices to be able to access the virtual machine, this solution doesn't work anymore.