And finally, the model editor of TGE is REALLLY awfull.
Their forums were littered with source code fixes which could not be applied to the binary distro.
This is a huge warning against using and even thinking about using TorqueX!
That said, during that time, we also worked with 3D Game Studio A5, and Torque was better...
The companies "defense" against the lack of documentation is that there was only one documentor that was shared between all the engines they develop.
I would never in my wildest dreams touch any Torque product with a 10 foot pole.
I ended up switching over to TorqueX 2D which also was a ton of problems.
They even show Box Macabre on their site which uses the TorqueX 3D engine.
One, that TorqueX 3D was basically a POS and two, the utter lack of documentation.
I was forced to work with sevreal Torque products...
After that, happily we never had contact with Torque again.
It has an editor, it has documentation, it has support and it's affordable.
If you want to know why they are private it's because you'll see huge gripes.
Basically the only documentation that existed at the time.
It's also a full game engine, with pipeline, as opposed to a lot of engines out there.
But some other teams that I know, don't found those bugs to hilarious, specially one that after 4 months working to make a REALLY cool castle, could not make the collision work (even doing it properly...) without severe hacks, and even then it was still strange...
TGEA is a TGE that support shaders, unfortunately it can easily get hell slow, and it was sorta broken (I know some dudes that spent 80% of their resources hacking TGEA source to make a simple cartoon shader work properly).
Anyways to the end of the story it was a complete nightmare.
The code is reasonably structured - you could do worse.
note: this is based off of my experience from around 06/2009
From what is on their site it would give you the impression that the 3D editor and engine would greatly help with development.
However, having the source and seeing how they approached certain problems is always nice.
As for the engine - you can make games with it, and decent ones at that, but not without putting in a lot of blood, sweat and tears.
Don't let the screenshots fool you, it's indeed the art that sells it.
Everything is peachy at this point and hopes are high.
My own team had problems with that too, ranging from random collision boxes in the middle of the nothing (yep, you was walking and suddenly you could not walk...) to walls that don't collide.
I say that they provide the source, because without it you cannot do much...
As with most engines I find it easier to write it myself so I know what it can do and how I should do it without having to grasp someone else's philosophy that is bound to clash with mine.
First, the regular Torque Game Engine, the documentation is a mess, the support is more about forcing you to ask on the forums, and the engine although solid, it is old, and has several bugs of the "hilarious" type...
TorqueX 3D 3.1.5 is based around using their editor to modify xml files.
I would definitely not recommend it to someone just starting out.
And on top of that TorqueX is free if you have an XNA creator's club account.
I even had "The Complete Guide to Torque X" book which was written by one of the developers of Torque X.
I too, was naive and thought, wow a XNA based engine that would help speed along development.
So, about TGEA and TGE: Lots of people claim that the best is that they provide the source...
You of course don't get to know this until you get access to their "private" forums.
Now TorqueX... well, the editor was crashy, and crashy, and SO CRASHY that we decided to switch engine in mid development.
Actually usable, but since I had the free XNA creators version I only got binaries and no source code.
It's no fun when you find bugs in the engine but lack the source code to actually fix them.
I purchased the XNA account on 06/18/2009 so the TorqueX I have experience with is back in the days of TorqueX 2D and TorqueX 3D 3.1.5