Check if the file is Read-Only from the Properties panel.
The easiest way to fix this is to copy the file so that the sparse attribute is gone.
Paste the error message back here if it gets you nowhere and see if someone can help :)
If the file or image (as mountable file) is greater than 10 GB in size or/and you don't have space on your HDD.
Navigate to the directory in which the file is located;
Run PowerShell or Command Prompt as administrator;
I mounted the same drive letter and path as the explorer session I was using under an elevated command prompt and the explorer mount worked..
NOTE: Use quotes in the file name of the file if the file name contains white spaces.
The problem is that their required download manager is setting the download file to be a sparse file as can be seen by the "P" attribute in the screenshot below.
If the file or image (as mountable file) is less than 10 GB in size, just copy the file.
The "-verbose" flag should give you some info but type the following command immediately after executing the above might give you more debug info:
Credit for this info goes to : Bug of the Day: Couldn't Mount File in Windows 8.1
Check if the file is Blocked from the Properties panel right below the permissions for read, hide.
When you right click and try to mount, you will get this error:
If it is, remove the check in the checkbox and Apply;
Normally if you copy using Windows Explorer the sparse attribute will be removed.
I had a similar problem with a different solution, the ISO was housed on a network share and the drive was not mounted under the local server administrator credentials.
If you downloaded the iso from Microsoft using their Akamai NetSession client then this is actually a bug in the downloader.
Change the "ImagePath" parameter with the path to your ISO:
I try to mount a .iso and get the following eror on windows Server 2012
The error message is not very clear so here are some tips on debugging the issue.
It seems like it works fine if I mount it not through mapping drive.
Next type the following command to mount your image.
If it is click the button 'Unblock' to unblock it;
Open up a Powershell command prompt and type the following (from here) :
This is caused, because the file is marked as sparse (For more information here: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa365564%28v=vs.85%29.aspx ) I had the same problem and I found two solutions.