Is it realistic to think that a network guru, logging in remotely would likely be able to do the detective work to locate the source of the issue?
The organisation is rurally located and has had trouble finding local support with a sufficient depth of knowledge to diagnose the problem (suggesting that they systematically replace all the equipment until the problem goes away is not a diagnosis IMHO).
The network is actually fairly simple (serves around 15 users) and they don't have a dedicated IT guy, although one of the more technically minded general staff does most of the mundane IT stuff.
Also, if any network geeks reading this are up for some moonlighting at reasonable rates, please comment.
There are weird things happening and periodically the network slows down then jams up.
Cycling the power on the main equipment restores functionality until the next time (usually a few days later).
They have both T1 & DSL connectivity, separated by VLAN's with a simple VoIP system running.
If you're having intermittent problems that don't go away on their own, but rebooting solves it, check your resource levels.
All the switches are managed and we could set up a packet sniffing machine to plug directly into a port setup for monitoring.
Assuming it is viable, any direction on sites to look for gurus would also be appreciated.
Many switches support a "management" network which may be completely isolated from your production network.
I have a small non-profit that I help that has a hub and spoke fiber network on managed Netgear switches.
That said, this often isn't done because it doubles the number of networks you have to support and test, but when done properly it can make remote administration almost as effective as live-in-person troubleshooting.
This allows you to log into your systems via some out-of-band interface like a modem connected to a bastion host, then from there you can reach all your network devices via the management network and perform your diagnostics from there.
That's a sign that /something/ is expending your free resources of some type.