However, I will say from what I've observed a bigger storage device tends to have higher Read/write speeds then a smaller one....I have no idea why this is.
it's hard to say for certain given how few people seem to know anything about Readyboost.
Bigger is better, IF, and only if, the flash drive has a fast enough Access time and fast enough Read/write speeds consistently throughout the device.
In case i decide to use SD flash card, what should i do if it is already plugged in and i decide to use another SD flash card in order to transfer photos?
Really, NTFS is the way to go with any partition that works with Windows as long as you don't need cross-platform compatibility.
Even Microsofts basic Readyboost tutorial states one should use at least twice the amount of RAM, and ideally at least 4 times as much.
However I don't have enough information to say for certain that NTSF is better then exFAT, my own research would lead me to believe Readyboost performs better when the flash storage device is formatted in NTSF, with exFAT being second place, tho better for medium sized data transfers, with FAT32 being the worst overall, though better in hyper specific scenarios.
What will happen if i take out suddenly ReadyBoost SD flash card?
Theoretically, for ReadyBoost to work as it should, you should probably stick with NTFS.
...which are very difficult to find actually, so unfortunately I cannot help you find an SD card or USB stick to use with Readyboost.
NTFS support on Linux and MacOS is shaky and I wouldn't depend on it for mission-critical applications.
I remember reading a comparison that showed on average that NTSF has less overhead to operate then both exFAT and FAT32.
Since Windows 7 by itself uses NTFS, it remains logical to format flash card/drive with NTFS file system, however will NTFS or even exFAT be fine for flash card/drive?
It does in fact help even systems with a whole lot of RAM, let alone one with 2 GB.
Doing so could burn up the flash device in a few years, or even less time, but these devices aren't expensive so, whatever right?
And Indrek, I would say you probably did something wrong, Readyboost is significantly more complicated then it looks.
I know that FAT32 has a limit of 4GB transfer per file, but is it faster and better than NTFS or exFAT?
You should go down to your taskbar, right click on the Safely Remove USB Devices and select the device you want to remove.
My system had 3 GB and Readyboost made it possible to have more then 7 web pages open without latency.
This wasn't specifically for Readyboost however it did seem to demonstrate that NTSF was better for random read/writes, which is what ready boost excels at.
Also if the port you are inserted this flash device into is only USB too, that probably won't cut it.
You shouldn't just 'pull-out' the SD card, or a USB-key for that matter.
Also, "You should probably use Readyboost equal to the amount of RAM you have as a good starting point" This precisely the wrong way to use Readyboost.
This will avoid corrupted files and unwanted read/write interrupts.