Scenario 2: You use a 9 character password for the first three months, and a different 9 character password for the remaining three monts.
In Scenario 2, if he can do only (62^9)/2 attemps in half the time (three months), he'll hack the account with 50% certainty.
If this is for private use only, why not use public key authentication and have just a good PW for your keyring?
In the second half, he'll get another chance with 50% certainty.
Scenario 3: You use a 10 character password for the entire six months.
I generally only change that password every year or so.
Assume a timeframe of six months for an attacker to hack your system.
Although it would theoretically be much better to change passwords frequently, the let's-write-that-down-on-a-post-it-factor increases exponentially as the validity period gets shorter.
Since I never use the password for day-to-day tasks the likely hood of it being intercepted is nearly non-existent.
There should always be a good password policy implemented to stay safe and secure :-)
Are you actually talking about the Administrator account for the domain (SID: S-1-5-21domain-500), or are you talking about the administrator account you created for yourself so you can get useful logs about who does what?
I also tend to use key-based authentication whenever possible so that my password is very rarely transmitted anywhere.
Let's do a quick calculation (and forget best practices for a moment):
It's always a good practice to change your password every 30 to 42 days.
I also don't generally work with what I think most people would consider to be high-risk systems.
No matter how complex passwords you may be setting.
So statistically, he'll hack the account with 75% certainty.
Our network also has lockout systems and such which should prevent any remote brute force attacks from ever being very effective.
In Scenario 1, a brute force attacker hacks your account with 100% certainty, if he can do 62^9 attempts in that time.
If you are talking about my personal account that I granted admin privileges to  I tend to change it about every 6 months.
So if we leave all other factors out (like stolen passwords and other kinds of attacks), the recommendation would be to rather choose longer passwords than using shorter (or simpler) passwords, even if they're changed more often.
I generally will set up the Administrator account to have a long (20+ character password) and store the password in a safe location and never use that account.
Especially, because in Scenario 3, there are only 10 characters to remember, while in Scenario 2, it's 18 characters.
Let's also assume, that passwords are randomly chosen from a character set of size 62.
So he'll hack the account only with 1/62 certainty, that's about 1.6%.
In Scenario 3, he'll have 62^9 attempts for the entire six months.
Scenario 1: You use a 9 character password for the entire six months.