Also, many graphics cards share core memory ... and those are far less adept at keeping their memory kernels clean and tidy!
Are there cases when leaving a computer running is ok?
Software-wise you can easily leave a system running for weeks or months without any noteable issues.
If you plan remote access, wake on LAN, etc then you need a less green approach ... modified sleep or left on (with settings for shutting off display, drives, etc set according ot your needs).
If your machine is encrypted, there are hacks / tools which can extract keys from memory (if you have suspended they get put back into RAM when the machine is fired up).
Although pretty robust these days, the hardest function of a hard drive is starting up and shutting down ... so be careful with those sleep and hybernate settings ... they can repeatedly wake up the hard drive(s) if your not careful.
Many people use the time they are away from their computer to schedule resource-intensive tasks like A/V scans and media transcodes.
Most of the time, my machine runs 24/7 with reboots as needed for security updates.
Most modern operating systems have facilities for cleaning RAM, swap files, etc ... but David Zaslavsky's response is spot-on ... performance will definitely get a boost by a complete shutdown on a regular basis.
Personnaly, I shut my computers down ... all the way.
This is a very old question ... debated over and over and over.
No need to keep the juice flowing when I'm not home ... and, using Windows 7, the PCs start up in a flash.
The real answer always tends to be "depends on what you are planning on doing" ... if you have no need to keep the PC on then use one of the power-saver modes: sleep, hibernate, suspend or shut down.
During the hottest part of summer (I live in AZ), I turn it off when I go to work unless I have a workload that needs done.
Shutting down an encrypted machine is the surefire way to prevent such attacks.
Leaving a computer running will put more usage hours on the hardware, which will shorten the hardware's lifespan.
These can then be used to decrypt a copy of your drive.
I don't want to shutdown, but thing is I use ubuntu, and If I wont shutdown it properly , it will be messed up , as it was installed on top of NTFS
Done right, this is all done offline and you may not even be aware (if you have left your machine unattended, eg overnight while the cleaning crew are in.
I use sleep mode if I'm just leaving it for a little bit (to save some power instead of just letting it run).
I have a feeling your question will never be definitively answered ... the chicken-or-the-egg quandry of the PC world!
I use hibernate if I'm going away from my computer for an extended period of time (instead of shutdown).
Even the best-written software can have memory leaks, lost pointers, etc.
Leaving the computer running also generates heat and uses electricity.