(It is, very directly, what started my motion from electrical engineering to computer science (in the late 90's) and more specifically to bio-inspired computation and artificial intelligence (in the last five years or so.))
There are opportunities in the entire field of electromagnetic device design, really:  Antennas, antenna arrays, microwave filters, optical gratings, metamaterial device design, all off the top of my head.
I've seen a lot of good papers on non-electromagnetic circuit design as well:  GAs coming up with competitive op-amp or other integrated circuit designs, GAs "learning" to take advantage of the analog imperfections in FPGAs to implement analog functions like clocks, etc.
Antenna design has already been mentioned, and it is an extremely rich domain.
The fitness function in the first case was how much of the requested items were manufactured in the given time frame, while in the second case the fitness was based on penalizing schedules with conflicts.
These are often used in finance, especially for portfolio optimization problems.
Nasa created a genetic algorithm for Antenna Design.
http://rogeralsing.com/2008/12/07/genetic-programming-evolution-of-mona-lisa/
If you're interested in applications, here's a link to 20K+ papers on citeseerx
Even something as simple as dumb, discrete element filter design can be a target for GAs:  I've seen one that factors in q-factors, tolerances, discrete values and soldering parasitic models to get good, manufacturable filters from the parts you have at hand.
A dated survey is Electromagnetic Optimization by Genetic Algorithms, and a more recent survey is Genetic Algorithms in Electromagnetics.
Represent the image of Mona Lisa using only 50 semi-transparent triangles.
These often involve some novel (to me, anyway) circuit representations to get the genetic operators to fit the paradigm, as well as variable size chromosomes.
I've used GAs to solve scheduling problems in manufacturing and education.
In the same vein, I'll add antenna array optimization, especially for phased array optimization, which is all of the headaches of antenna design, and more.
There are many papers on this subject, but see for example Genetic Algorithms in Portfolio Optimization.