It's possible you might save a couple of years on the IT career-ladder, but at this stage in the game real-world-experience with actual products in actual environments will earn you better resume-polish.
Once you have a few years under your belt, then you can opt for graduate-school.
That said, the graduate degree you get in a few years may not be Manager of Information Technology, it may be an MBA.
When I was younger (I'm 37) I did think about going back to school for an advanced degree, but never seriously pursued it.
Then, if you REALLY want to do it later go for it.
What if I were hiring a network administrator and I had to choose between two candidates, one with a master's degree and one with an MCITP plus a CCNP?
Some hiring managers like their middle-career people to have degrees, others don't give a wet fig.
Business-smarts matter quite a bit once you get to a certain level.
*Coming from someone in a position to hire, but I'm not the Google.
If your company will pay for it, and it will help your career path go for it.
If you want to move into positions that require it go for it.
Keep in mind that most studies indicate that the financial return of a masters degree may be worthwhile, but PhDs are a losing proposition.
If you really want to invest more time and energy in your education, you are far better off getting professional-level industry certifications that have knowledge requirements but not experience requirements.
My vote is for at least a bachelors degree in computer science, so you have a solid theoretical foundation.
I suspect people with masters degrees will tell you it is important, and people without them will tell you it is not.
Though it's hard to predict the future, Tech has historically been an experience-driven career-path.
My suggestion would be to go out and get some real world experience.
I've had a successful career so far with a bachelors.
I have a bachelors degree in computer science and it has served me well.
I couldn't care less if you have a Master's or an Associate's degree.
All else being equal, I certainly would find the certifications more compelling.
degree, real-world experience is far more important.