It sounds like you wanted your DNS topology like this:
I got it all setup and working, all that was left was to specify the DNS servers in my router configuration.
Next, I decided to run a DNS server with dnsmasq off the same Raspberry Pi by following this guide.
I'm aware it can be accessed from Windows by installing the Bonjour service, however I'm mainly going to be accessing the domain from Android so this isn't going to work.
Long story short, my router (EE) doesn't like using a different DNS than it uses by default and it doesn't work.
The end of your post starts to get in to public DNS which raises the question:
This is something I have to caution you against as a potentially fatal security hole.
Public DNS (Domain name) -> Your public IP (Must be static or DDNS)-> Your router (port forward) -> RPi
This does require reconfiguring all your clients DNS settings, which may be undesirable.
(I know I can set a static IP to the Pi however I would prefer a domain name).
If you did make a global DNS record for your Pi you would then need to configure port forwards through your router to make the Pi visible to the public internet.
Do you want your Pi to be in a local DNS entry or a global one?
That should work for your LAN as long as the RPi has it's upstream DNS configured properly.
If you are having problems with your router the other option would be to point your clients directly to the Pi instead of the router.
It works great, as long as you access mydomain.local from a Mac or a Linux machine running avahi daemon.
I'm trying to make a domain name direct to the local IP address of a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian, primarily so I don't have to remember an IP address.
That didn't work (ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED), so I tried the same thing on freedns.afraid.org and got the same result.
There is a project called pi-hole based on this concept.
I tried creating a free domain on no-ip.com and directing it to the desired local IP, 192.168.1.x.
Unless you are a security professional I would not put a RaspberryPi facing the public internet.