Also note that add/remove features did not work with this share.
For whatever reason, my optical drive shows the files on the disk, but the DISM doesn't like it, but copying the files to C: seems to have worked.
I had the same issue when I mount the Windows install disk or use the physical DVD, and here's how I fixed it:
The only difference from yours is the /LimitAccess, but I believe that is the important part, as it prevents it from attempting to contact Windows Update or WSUS.
The command I use to install .NET Framework 3.5 on Windows 8.1 and Server 2012 R2 is:
I finally pointed it at a share of the the winsxs folder on another fully patched server that did have .net 3.5 (c:\windows\winsxs) and it worked:
We just make sure we install 3.5 on all servers before adding to the domain.
Option 1 did not work for me either, option 2 completed successfully.
For whatever reason, this aspect (contacting Windows Update) is totally broken for .NET Framework 3.5 on Windows 8/8.1 and Server 2012/2012R2 and will always cause it to fail.
See also: http://blogs.technet.com/b/askcore/archive/2012/05/14/windows-8-and-net-framework-3-5.aspx
Got this info from http://www.danielclasson.com/install-net-framework-35-server-2012/
Even when pointing at various copies of the sxs folder, it still would get a variation of the "source files not found" error.
There's lots of stuff on the internet on this and most of it was summarized in the answers here.
I know there are other articles pointing to the removal of two particular KBs, but those did not show up in our list of installed patches.
My theory is that the install process was looking for source files that matched the current KBs on the server.
I'm sure it has to do with WSUS at some layer, but that solved it for us.
I've been able to solve this by using the server manager add features wizard and there specifying an alternate source there.
My resolution was to remove the server from Active Directory, Install .Net 3.5, then add back to AD.