There is a very annoying header in mail sent by the the Postfix daemon and I'm looking for a way to get rid of it:
You'll need this to be part of the envelope when passing the message back to postfix.
Sure, you can mangle existing headers in postfix if you really want.
Here is an example header_checks snippit for your consideration.
As the last thing the script does, pass the message back to postfix.
Finally add an unfiltered smtp receiver to master.cf to accept the newly modified messages:
You can use header_checks to either IGNORE the header, or, better, to REPLACE it using a regexp to X-Received or something similar.
In master.cf on your smtpd line, change the last part to include the filter.
Note that the sender and recipient here are from the envelope not the body.
Headers checking is frequently one part of the Bayesian spam analysis.
Somewhat off topic, but is it also possible to remove the hostname from the Message-ID, leaving only the domain?
You then configure postfix to pass all messages to that script as a filter.
But IIRC, most MTAs won't add that header unless it hasn't already been added by the MUA.
That said, I would probably replicate this configuration for production networks in the future.
Mail reputation is a tricky business, and cloaking all mail so that it appears to originate from a small number of relays makes that reputation management easier.
This finds and grabs "Received: host1.amazonaws.com" and replaces it with "X-Cloak-Received: host1.amazonaws.com".
You can also use Net::SMTP to make resubmission back to postfix easy.
I use this on mail relays that send mail on behalf of servers in Amazon's EC2 cloud.
As has been mentioned, Postfix header_checks is the place to do this.
Anti-spam systems hate finding anything related to EC2, so this kind of cloaking is regrettably necessary.
That being said, if you remove your Received: line, keep in mind that it may increase the spam probability on emails sent by that server.
The first thing you need to do is write a script that will accept a raw message on STDIN, and modify the message as you'd like (I'll assume that you have this capability already).