You'll have to get a disk with the same or larger number of blocks being used in the array.
I suspect that in most cases you'll lose the changes made.
That is, will the still functioning mirrors (C and D) automatically be used to rebuild the new drive (E)?
If you get a replacement "1 TB" drive later, even from the same vendor, it may have less blocks.
3) When such a failure occurs (such as when A fails), will swapping it for a new empty hard drive (a new, drive E) be all that I need to do?
4) Hypothetically speaking: suppose I disconnect one of the drives, say B, and connect it to a separate computer, add/remove a few files, plug it back into the RAID 1 group, will this screw things up?
Some systems automatically start a rebuild of replaced drives, others require manual intervention to force a rebuild.
4) In all the systems I've seen, that's an unsupported operation.
And of course it also depends on the drive partitioning alignment.
2) There's not really a "taking over", they're always active.
3) Even if your system automatically rebuilds an array if possible, beware that "1 TB" disk is actually a vendor-dependent term.
You might be able to get away with it, but you're not using it the way it's meant to be.
You could possible corrupt the whole array too I suppose.
With more than 2 drives, it usually makes more sense -- it'll keep running if any single drive fails (like a mirror), but it only uses one drive for redundant data (unlike a mirror, which uses half of the drives for redundancy).
Depending on your setup, the initial process may have claimed all blocks in those disks.
Usually 1 TB - a few blocks ~ (10^12 - 100 )B  is quite safe.
2) none of the drives is the "main" drive, they mirror each other
My lab is considering setting up a server with an attached RAID device for storing our large imaging datasets.
1) Is my understanding of RAID 1 correct to do the above?
In that case, you won't be able to use it as a replacement.
2) If, for instance, drive A fails, the mirrored drives will immediately take over, right?
You could either config it as a single 4-drive RAID (with 3TB capacity), or a 3-drive RAID (2TB capacity) with a hot spare it'll automatically rebuild onto in case of a failure.
Is this something I should set up in the server software?
(probably a Mac Mini server with attached Promise SmartStor DAS w/ 4 1TB hard drives)
1) Yes, assuming the drives have compatible sizes (see 3) )
Therefore, it is often advisable to limit the array to a number of blocks which most "1 TB" disks should fulfill.
Since there will be 4 1 TB hard drives, I would like to set up a RAID 1 configuration where 2 of the drives (say, A and b), will be mirrored onto the other two (say, C and D).