When I SSH as "foouser" from my local system to "remotesystem", SSH uses the key pair to authenticate me.
Then, I should be able to "ssh foouser@remotesystem" while logged in as "baruser" locally, and SSH will use the key pair to authenticate, right?
Just copy the key to the remote user's authorized_keys section and it will work.
Suppose I have a remote system named "remotesystem", and a user account "foouser" on that system.
Once you've found the problem, remember to set it back to how you found it.
With any ssh related problems, the first thing to do is turn up the client verbosity:
That is, what if I want to SSH as local user "baruser" to "remotesystem"?
Sounds like you're doing things correctly, but make sure that the permissions are correct on authorized_keys.
But what if my local username is not the same as the username on the remote system?
If you're always using the same username for a remote server, you may also find it useful to add a host into your ssh config:
You should find the debug output in /var/log/auth.log (or where ever ssh is configured to log to).
I'm asking because I am trying to get the key authentication working in this scenario, without success.
I'm not sure if its due to the username mismatch, or a configuration issue with the SSH server on the remote system.
That way you don't need to remember to specify user name when logging in, and you rule that out when having issues with keys in future.
Obviously, I will need to generate a key pair for "baruser" and add the public key to "/home/foouser/.ssh/authorized_keys".
If this fails to give you any insights as to what is wrong, you need to change the log level on the server and restart the daemon.
Your local username doesn't really matter (aside from the private key having to reside inside your local user's home directory).
I know that on my local system, I can generate an SSH key pair as local user "foouser", put the public key in the "/home/foouser/.ssh/authorized_keys" file on "remotesystem".