No one likes waiting for ETL/OLAP type operations, reports n' stuff.
The way I spec out an OLTP server (in general) is:
If you had a CPU bottlenecked database you'd probably know it already because you'd have been special in several ways to get here.
What does matter is that you didn't even mention your disk subsystem in your post, which means you're coming at this backwards.
As the others have said, you HAVE to go with the 55xx-series - we saw a seven-fold increase in overall Oracle 10g performance on our HP blades between the 54xx-series and 55xx-series - just the memory performance alone justifies their use.
server, I'd have to say the Opteron is better buy in terms of price/performance ratio (and energy), but your case clearly calls for as much muscle with no regard to energy savings.
If its an OLTP server, and you are actually worried that it's going to CPU bottleneck maybe the app's really not an OLTP app.
I'd have to say the Intel Xeon would be the better bet in terms of database/OLAP performance.
It is almost always disk i/o bottlenecked, and after that memory/cache bottlenecked, and after that network i/o bottlenecked.
You're using only one processor, so the X5550 might not be the most efficient processor choice; if you can, try to grab up an X3460.
As an AMD Opteron fan boy, I'd have to say you should go with the Intel Xeon for SQL Server OLAP type duties.
Database performance is very rarely CPU bottlenecked.
The 2425HE has 6-cores vs. the Xeon's 4-cores w/hyperthreading, the big issue/caveat is hyperthreading and OLAP.
If it's performance per dollar or watt then AMD can be competitive but on pure performance Intel are way ahead of the game - and you should see how the forthcoming 75xx-series perform!
I'd probably go with the X5550, since it will give you a total of 8 threads, versus 6.
Istanbul 2425HE is an awesome 6-core processor and the energy savings are phenomenal in comparison to Intel's X5550 but OLAP is processor, I/O intensive activity.
I'd argue that 6-cores is better than 4 since hyperthreading performance can be highly unpredictable in certain situations, but I believe for Xeons and OLAP, hyperthreading is just fine, according to Anandtech (link).
Get whichever cpu is cheaper and focus on your disk and memory needs.