Technically, WSH is not a language unto itself, but rather an environment (not GUI) that exposes COM interfaces to allow you use (almost) whatever scripting language you want, to do OS things, even things that have no native way built into the language (for example, Ruby has no built-in way to log into Windows or TCL/TK has no built-in way to show the Run dialog).
For me, a DOS batch file is still the main scripting language for Windows (it certainly is traditional), but everyone has needs and preferences that differ.
I second the recommendation for Perl, if you're up to writing some Perl scripts.
Familiarity with the tools is another important aspect that can limit your options.
You may have seen some WSF files which can include multiple languages in one file, but usually WSH scripts are written in one language and distributed with an extension corresponding to the scripting version of that language (eg VBS for VisualBasic scripts, PYS for PythonScript, etc.)
Some will never leave batch, some love vbscript some love powershell, others like AutoIt.
I suppose the official scripting “language” for Windows would be (and has been since Win95) Windows Script Host.
If you need develop something new - choose language/way based on requirements, and what you already know.
Usually it is not a problem to learn one, if you need to  add some modifications or support already written scripts.
There are many things that DOS batch files can't do (scripting languages can pose limitations too), and for the rare occasions where I've encountered this I then look at what my other options are (often it's Perl, or sometimes it could be to write a small program or an entire application).
If you're trying to decide which scripting [or programming] language to learn, then hopefully this will be helpful to you.
Understanding what you need to accomplish is a very important step in deciding which tools to use.
For most tasks, this still works quite well, and it's very simple to work with (also, many of the DOS commands such as "FOR" have been improved over time and provide more options and functionality that weren't available more than a decade ago).
It will vary from batch files and PowerShell to autohotkey and Selenium (if you need to automate some GUI related tasks).
People I work with have successfully used and recommend CLR Script (a bit old), and for scripting web interaction,iMacros
Then there are the platform independent ones like Python and Perl that some will swear by for everything.
It could be almost anything, depending what you try to automate.