There has been various blogs, MSDN pages, posts, etc.
My guess is that if, for example, you wanted "enterprise-wide" biometric logon capability you'd need each employee to "enroll" their fingerprints on each computer they were going to logon to.
If, indeed, centralized biometric credential distribution (which, arguably, presents a lot of fun security challenges) isn't a part of the biometric authentication functionality in Windows 7 then, arguably, it's of little use.
Anyone know how to enable it to work with Active Directory?
Windows 7 provides a device abstraction layer such that, assuming your fingerprinter reader's manufacturer has written the appropriate driver software, the reader itself will "just work" with Windows.
From the scant articles that I'm finding, it appears that the biometric-based logon becomes available after at least one user has "enrolled" their fingerprints, and will work for both local user accounts and domain user accounts.
The framework is extensible, by Microsoft, to support other types of biometric data, but only fingerprint UI has been added in Windows 7.
I see no method for "pre-loading" biometric data into groups of machines.
Microsoft's goal in doing this was to provide a consistent user experience re: enrolling biometric data.
(The "provider" functionality in Windows 7 supports only fingerprints.
(Yeah-- per this article that appears to be what's happening...)
It certainly looks like Microsoft hasn't thought at all about how to deploy this functionality across groups of computers.
It's unclear to me where Microsoft is actually storing the biometric data and the user's password.
Since it has to be accessible prior to logon, my guess is that they're encrypting it with some machine-specific key and packing it away in the computer's registry somewhere.
(http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd759228.aspx) In Windows 7 and Windows 2008 R2 it includs some group policy settings for it also.
So that it shows up on the logon screen or UAC prompt?
about Windows 7 and Windows 2008 R2 supporting biometric authentication built-in (or so it seems).