In some institutions students are allowed to take courses without the necessary prerequisites.
The specific symptoms you describe seem to imply poor teaching in an earlier term.
If you wind up in the same situation again and need to compensate, a boot camp such as suggested by Jay here might work for you.
You don't describe your own position within the institution.
Do something at the very start to help you know your students better.
If you can't make assumptions about the students, as you seem to have done, then try to anticipate the problems.
Also a syllabus that details expectations (using the appropriate language...).
If any such issues are present, a discussion within the department about how to make everything work is called for.
But if you are without power to affect anything, then you are also at professional risk if the students don't complete the course requirements and pass into the next course.
In some institutions that accept students from elsewhere, it is difficult to impossible to assess the real skills of the students prior to enrollment.
Can your institution fix that problem (if that is really it)?
But is it a continuing problem or just a one time occurrence due to poor instruction in previous terms?
You can also prepare a checklist of tasks for the students on the first day (Install the IDE...).
Of course, you need to be proactive in a situation in which it is likely to recur.
Do you have any power at all to affect the overall process?
If you expect it to continue, perhaps you should attack the problem at its root.
Some sort of exam or exercise at the start can tell you a lot.
tl;dr: (a) solve the problem at its root, (b) know your students.
Can you start discussions about what is happening and come to an overall solution, perhaps involving other courses, that make the problem go away.
There are some things that aren't clear from your question and they impact on what action is appropriate.
This again, suggests that you have an institutional problem and not just one with a given class.
First, you describe the problem in the past tense.
If is just a one-off, perhaps you don't need any solution at all.
Perhaps an earlier professor needs help and is either inexperienced or was him/herself faced with a problem such as yours and had to compensate just as you did.
A few weeks is far too late to learn these things.