About POP3, is just a protocol for your email client communicate with the server, and can be also IMAP or MAPI (in case of exchange servers).
There is a standard format called Unix mbox format.
I'm planning to do some backups of my e-mails in my yahoo account.
How the mail client saves the email is what we told you before.
maildir is preferable because each mail is a plain textfile.
Each file would be an e-mail, with metadata as data received, attachments, and such.
I'm afraid to do it using Outlook or Thunderbird, and be "locked" to their formats.
That said, Outlook is used by zillions of people and has been for years, so if your email is in PST format, you can feel pretty confident that you'll always be able to find tools to extract it.
(getmail on windows works best from within cygwin)
PST can have tons of applications, but it isn't a simple text file.
i would use 'getmail' to retrieve the mail periodically into either 'mbox' or (preferable) 'maildir' storage.
But until the actual emails standards still the same, you always have some tools to decode the files.
You could have Gmail automatically POP mail, or you could use an IMAP synchronization tool, or some other method to transfer the mail.
Thunderbird use mbox (like some unix email servers), PST in case of Outlook, and even Evolution have some other formats besides mbox, including have a single file per message.
Thunderbird's local mail stores are in the standard mbox mail format.
I'm not sure whether Yahoo Mail can export to mbox format.
Mbox format is a simple text file, so even with a text editor you can see your emails.
That way your backup is accessible via any mail client.
Does exist a standard format specification to e-mails downloaded from POP3 accounts, that I would be able to read/open without specifically opening the e-mails accounts?
Another option is to back it up to another mail provider (e.g.
Well... you will need HTML viewer if you have receive email in html and some decoders to recover the attachments.
I know Thunderbird is Open Source, but I don't know if it's format specification is a standard one, and just because it's open source doesn't mean it would be easy to recover data in the future.