So, strictly speaking, in terms of data security, a primary partition is 50% less likely to fail.
One of these may be used to create/hold an extended partition, which in turn allows additional partitions on the drive that do not use any of the remaining three primary partition slots in the MBR.
A primary partition only requires one LBA (the MBR).
In theory there is a difference insofar as an extended partition requires two LBAs (the MBR plus the first sector in the extended partition) to be written to once, and to be read subsequently on every mount.
This way, in case of OS failure, I just restore my BU image of the drive and poof, back up and running.
While GPT does store a second GPT table at the end of the disk which sounds just great, it also requires at least twice as many LBAs to work, which again doubles the rate of unrecoverable read failures.
It doesn't increase security, however it makes it more convenient to reinstall Windows by formatting only C drive, leaving data unharmed.
This ensures that further additions can never run out of partition slots.
When creating a second partition for data storage (i.e., not the boot partition) for an OS, the primary difference here is that it may affect your ability to create more partitions later.
Some older or less sophisticated boot programs may not be able to boot from an extended partition but only from a primary one, so it's also good practice not to use a primary slot for a partition you know you will never want to boot, leaving it free in case you later need another bootable partition.
But why not just use a primary partition if there's only one partition on the disk so far!
There's no reason not to go with a primary partition, really.
If all four primary partition slots are allocated to primary partitions, it's no longer possible to add an extended partition and thus you can add no more partitions to that drive, even if you have free space.
In practice, 1/1015 and 50% of 1/1015 are pretty much the same.
The most important advantage is that you can have partitions larger than 2 TB and you can boot Windows in UEFI mode (presumed all other preconditions hold).
So... at the end of the day, it's pretty much the same.
That will only work if you have a reasonably recent computer and operating system, but in that case it will have some (minor) advantages.
There are four primary partition slots on an MBR-formatted drive.
When setting up completely from scratch (which is not the case from the wording of your question, since you want to assign drive letter D:, so that's not an option), you might consider GPT.
Therefore it's standard practice, when creating the first partition for which an extended partition slot can be used, to create it as an extended partition.
So you can see, newer Windows keeps data all over the place now, making this technique kinda moot.
Just don't forget to copy contents of MyDocuments and Desktop folders.. and favorites from browsers.. and settings and game saves from %AppData% folder...
Note that contrary to urban myth, GPT is not necessarily much safer than MBR.
If I lose the C drive itself, I can just replace it and drop the image back on all the while, my data is in tact and unharmed.
2 are data only, the other is a small drive <120GB.