Apple event sending with (a)synchronous reply handling.
the Core Text or NS Text layout engine, so you don't need libotf.
New function mac-file-alias-p', which is parallel to
I got them from the guy from emacs rocks github I think.
Reverse conversion in Kotoeri works even without selection.
Menu item "Open Selected File in Emacs" is shown in Services or
Attaching/detaching external monitors should work even with
Have a look at Aquamacs, which should be what you're looking for.
One tip, if you're using spaces, is to change the switch between windows to be something other than ctrl-arrow, because every time you try and do wordwise tab in emacs it will take you to a different window which gets a little wearing after a while.
both-horiz', text-image-horiz' are synonymous withboth'.
and later when absolute pathname-like text is selected.
swiping/flicking, exiting from the splash screen by typing "q",
Since you're on Snow Leopard, emacs-app from MacPorts won't compile, but emacs-app-devel will!
  the Emacs mailer will set up a draft buffer when you click a
fullboth', fullwidth',fullheight', and maximized'.
Sequences) even for the OS-bundled Hiragino fonts, which do not
Image I/O framework so you can scale and rotate images.
setting the left' andtop' frame parameters accordingly.
the former and push both into the kill ring so the latter can be
Hitting Eisu/Kana key on JIS keyboard (or Control-Shift-;/J/K on
Well I use vanilla emacs with the ns patch but with this settings
display of some combinations of regional indicator symbols, such
Change of text smoothing threshold setting in the Appearance pane
dialog in a compatible way with GTK+ and W32 ones.
frames visible for all Spaces on Mac OS X 10.5 and later.
The function system-move-file-to-trash', which can be specified
and later) even for fullboth frames where the menu bar is usually
Use non-integral x positions for displaying antialiased
order to reflect the changes to the original text area.)
cursor over Helvetica 12pt `I', whose ideal width is 3.33398 but
It even has smooth pixel scrolling, pinch zoom, and some nifty mac specific optimizations.
QuickCursor 2.0, you need to kill the buffer after saving it in
of the System Preferences is reflected immediately.
When the clipboard has both textual and image data, yank inserts
Pixel-based mouse wheel smooth scroll for newer mice/trackpads.
effects on Mac OS 10.5 and later via Core Animation.
environments, one can move fullscreen frames to another monitor by
ImageMagick library, the Mac port provides a fallback using the
        to open location "mailto:foo@example.com"'
The `sticky' frame parameter, which allows us to keep particular
Changing fonts or internal-border-width in fullscreen
fullboth frames, which don't have the title bar, still allow us to
Been an emacs user for 5 years and have tried all the mac ports.
Fonts support is a bit limited with carbon emacs, which I haven't yet got round to having a fight with it about.
listed in System Preferences just work like other applications.
nonmodal counterpart has been available since Emacs 22 Carbon port
contain the UVS subtable in their cmap table as of Mac OS X 10.6.
Selectors 15 (text-style) and 16 (emoji-style) are also supported.
keyboard access enabled), orCommand-Shift-/' (on Mac OS X 10.5
Can display color bitmap fonts such as Apple Color Emoji, if
of QCEditInChoices in QuickCursor.app/Contents/Info.plist.
context menu of other applications by default on Mac OS X 10.6
This is BY FAR the best I've used, both under the hood and and in appearance.
New function `mac-start-animation', which provides animation
and the "About Emacs" and "Preferences..." menu items in the
Personally use carbon emacs 'cos it's the one that hasn't been adulterated with annoying tabs and looks the most like the original one.
ideographic glyphs are accessible via IVSes (Ideographic Variation
Several keyboard shortcuts (notably those for Keyboard Navigation)
Emacs info nodes are accessible via search field in the Help menu
as U+1F1EF followed by U+1F1F5, as national flags.
the default animations with buffer switching by horizontal
"Click in the scroll bar to: Jump to the spot that's clicked"
Experimental support for accessibility with respect to the custom
can also be activated viamenu-bar-open', Control-F2' (if full
option key while clicking toggles this behavior temporarily.
I cmd+c on chrome and C-y on emacs to paste and viceversa C-w cmd+v)
The function x-select-font' that provides modal font selection
If you set Emacs as the default mailer via Mail.app preference,
application menu (labeled "Emacs") in the menu bar.
That way I get to use ´ and other option characters as in any other application and also have a more familiar placement of the Meta Key (I have capslock as ctrl btw)
The fullscreen' frame parameter, with all values supported: