I lead data science teams for a major Internet company and I have screened hundreds of profiles and interviewed dozens for our teams around the world.
It really depends on the credibility of the institution granting the certificate.
The requirement says min 3-5 hours a week, if you put more, and the material do open up for a lot more than the 3-5 hours, then these classes and certifications can be equivalent to strong knowledge base and experience in the field.
Many candidates have passed the aforementioned courses and programs or bring similar credentials.
The MOOCs that you mention will give you a good grounding in the basics and should be enough to get you started solving your own machine learning/data science problems.
Try an analysis on other public data sets, like the UCI Bike Sharing Dataset, or the UCI Diabetes Treatment Dataset those are lots of fun to try, and show that you are keen and willing to develop your skills.
A certificate from Coursera or Cloudera just signalizes an interest but it does not move the needle.
Not sure about the cloud era one, but one of my friends joined the John Hopkins one and in his words it's "brilliant to get you started".
You did not say what kind of certificate you are looking for?
Anyone hiring for a data science profile will always prefer to see your previous work and coding style/abilities.
Publish your results on Github using something like an iPython Notebook, which will allow your work to be easily seen and judged.
Try a Kaggle competition or two, that is a great way to improve your skills, and a decent grade there will be of interest to a potential employer.
I think the effect of the certification from coursera is dependent on the individual as well as the classes.
As far as seriousness is concerned, I don't think these certifications are gonna help you land a job, but they sure will help you learn.
For example, Data Science Certification from a Harvard-based company is recognized by many industry partners and may make a good choice.
The best way to be successful at getting the job that you want it to show that you can do it.
There is a lot more to consider and you can have a bigger impact by providing a comprehensive repository of your work (github profile for example) and by networking with other data scientists.
Personally, I have also taken the courses, some are good, others are disappointing but none of them makes you a "data scientist".