Edit:  It doesn't tell if it's a script or a binary, but assuming your 'ls -l' output is correct, then you probably don't have a 93kbyte script...  so this is probably a binary meaning my answer is totally incorrect.
Verified $PATH (though there should not be an issue).
For instance, on some older SCO systems, scripts with #!/bin/bash don't work because bash REALLY lives in /usr/bin/bash.
that might have been solved with a reboot, if one took place).
tab auto-complete would not show the file (neither in tcsh nor in bash).
Dumb, but hey SCO is almost dead for a reason, no?
Verified permission of the file (execution flag is set).
I'm guessing that your script doesn't have a valid shell after the #!.
might have happened with the original poster's problem, except that there
and the young system administrator in my lab re-installed the system.
the permission issue was intermittent (e.g., there was a temporary change
And indeed, in /etc/fstab, the exec permission was missing!
I had exactly the same problem, and failed to find an answer because the original poster's problem resolved itself.
Next time you have this problem, try running command -V mycommand to see what kind of command the shell believes mycommand is.
So I'm adding the following as an answer to the original post.
So then I try (after verifying the executable flag is set on the script):
But this didn't work for me, and I finally managed to track the problem down.
So perhaps the script is not calling the right scripting language (perl, in this case).
Then remembered that a few months ago my hard disk crashed,
I know if I use a binary that's in /usr/bin then install a /usr/local/bin version from source, the system still tries to execute the original one until I log out and back in.
Check your shell and make sure it points to a real binary/script.
You probably need to update your shell's cache of items in your $PATH using hash -r.
have screwed up the permissions on the partitions.
Just for grins and on the off chance this is a shell-related bug, can you try it with a different shell?
I did prove out a few things and think I may add to this later: