One good thing with the screenshots is that you'll have the full image of the webpage showing the text of the support chat is really coming from their website and representative.
My credit card provider has such a chat interface, but has disabled copying the text - using javascript I assume (is there another way?).
Double click on the HTML code to copy the content you need.
I'd like to circumvent that with minimal impact on other pages.
Open browser's console (CTRL + Shift + J), and enter the following command:
The HTML code corresponding to the pointed area will appear in the docked Dev Tools window.
I haven't looked at what Chrome has to offer in terms of non-UI settings.
Alternatively, you can save the page as a text file in Internet Explorer and then you can get just the text within the web page in the text file.
I use online chat for customer support when available, and I'd like to keep the chat transcript in case of a dispute with the provider.
FF used to have an option in the settings UI to disable certain javascript features, but it was removed.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Preferences/Preference_reference/dom.event.clipboardevents.enabled
Unless there's some way to verify the text was actually from the website chat you claim it did, they could easily argue that it's not real.
Move to the content within the web page and point to the specific portion of text that you want to copy.
I couldn't find any fine-grained JS control on NoScript, but I assume it's possible to filter out the JS code that disables copying text.
I have no knowledge of JS, but I notice that when I select text, the selection vanishes at the next event (such as click or after some time), I could find no way to bring up the context menu and ctrl-c has no effect.
If you use Firefox, try opening about:config and setting dom.event.clipboardevents.enabled to false.
If there's more text than fits on one screen, do it in steps and take more screenshots.
If you're worried about disputes with the provider, then a simple text log might not be very good evidence.
You can also use a word processing program like Microsoft Word or even WORDPAD that still comes with Windows and paste it in there.
I've found about:config settings that disable JS overriding the context menu, and disable clipboard events - but both of those are global and the former will probably mess sites like Google Docs too much for my taste.
In IE, choose File > Save As and in the dialog box that opens up, specify the Save as type as Text file.
I use FF27 with noscript, but solutions for Chrome are also welcome.
In Chrome or any of the popular modern browsers, open Developer Tools by clicking F12 and then click on the magnifying glass icon (or equivalent icon in other browsers) to turn on inspect mode.
This also works for sites which use obnoxious services like Tynt to alter the text you copy to add marketing copy.
Simply hit the "Print Screen" key on your keyboard and then open a graphics program like MSPAINT and paste.