I want to create a server for a customer and have that customer finish the configuration for themselves.
Some things may work but run real slow due to DNS lookup failures.
something like Google's) that the customer should enter the information by themselves.
Anything that needs or would result in a DNS lookup basically will not work.
Being unable to resolve DNS names means you can not access Internet resources as most if not all resources are addressed using names such as web addresses / email addresses, etc...
Not being able to resolve hosts is the issue they'll face.
If they're not technical I'm sure they will be more grateful for receiving a working system.
If at all possible, and these are meant to be turnkey systems, configure your servers with default entries such as those provided by Google Public DNS:
This means they won't seem to have Internet connectivity and will get strange errors like:
Once set then that setup script should no longer be called.
If you want it to be a turnkey system then you should provide some initial setup instructions or better still when they first login to the console a script forcing the dns to be setup would be sensible.
Some servers like SSH server by default do reverse DNS lookups on incoming connections.
If they're technical enough they can make the changes, if they so desire.
It makes sense just to use DHCP initially and provide some instructions for static configuration including DNS.
which don't necessarily lead non-technical users to check /etc/resolv.conf.
It depends on what server software is running on the host.
I assume that the customer is technically competent enough to do this.
Come to think of it, what are you setting the initial IP address to?
These reverse lookups end up slowing down the remote login process.
If however they forget or neglect to set this up they might spend some time trying to figure out what is wrong and eventually contact support.
(In this case, I think that setting a default might have been better.)
Apart from the obvious inability to resolve hosts, what other issues might they face until they have set valid dns servers in resolve.conf?
Configure the file with some defaults and advise the customer that they may wish to alter them.
It was been decided that rather than setting default DNS servers (i.e.
Your question doesn't really give much detail so we can't get specific.