There is an extension which analyses all sorts of things about the song, and will find similar songs to the one you're playing.
That would be very nice to retag the entire music collection so I can find the 'mood' of the track I like.
You can right click on the playlist generated and select option to select more or fewer songs like the one selected.
It's kind of cool, but after the wow factor wore off, I stopped using it.
While it is not just a tool like you say you are looking for, Banshee media player can detect bpm.
Also I'm interested if there's anything alike for tagging FLACs with the same 'bpm' field.
You can find songs that are similar to other songs.
I use Banshee for all my music playing, organisation and synchronizing to portable players.
Amarok 2 can search through music collection using ID3v2 tag's 'bpm' field.
I'm aware there's a nice moodbar feature, however it's useless for searching.
I don't know if Banshee will save the bpm it detected back into the ID3v2 "bpm" tag of the file.
It's currently unsupported, but I think they have tried to take it commercial as Predexis.
It's called Mirage, and I used it for a while, but I don't any more, as I've created a number of playlists of ones that suit various moods (not necessarily similar according to Mirage).
The free version exports playlists up to 75 songs in (at least) m3u format.
I don't know of a tool that does exactly what you are looking for, but I have played around with MusicIP.
It can also generate "smart playlists" based on all sorts of properties of the tracks, including bpm.
I used kolypto's original script using bpmcount and rewrote it for bpm-tag (utility of bpm-tools) which I had better luck with installing.
If anyone knows how to easily check the bpm tag from outside the program I'll check.
Used the linux / java version - it takes a long time to completely analyze a music library, but it really does work.
I'm not affiliated, but I like the program the best of all that I've tried.
You can find it on GitHub https://github.com/meridius/bpmwrap
This is a command-line tool to detect the BPM and put it in the FLAC file tags:
However I've not found any beat-detection software that could have helped me.