I'm not exactly sure how to interpret that syslog data.
Please post your failover configuration ("show run failover").
I have read How Failover Works on the Cisco Secure Firewall and it seems like this should be wicked straight forward.
The first command turns off failover; the second command relinquishes active status to the other firewall in the HA pair.
Primary doesn't seem to even try to become Active.
When I reload the individual units separately, my connections are retained, so it doesn't seem like I have a real hardware failure.
None of the suggestions above were able to resolve the issue for me.
Or try to enable preemption (you will need to specify manually which unit is primary and whis is secondary).
Instead, use the no failover active command on the secondary (currently active) firewall.
FWIW, the only way we were able to resolve this issue was by physically powering down both firewalls, then bringing them back up in the correct order.
We had a power outage at our data center last week and when our dual PIX 515E running IOS 7.0(8) (configured with a failover cable) came back, they were in a failed over state where the Secondary unit is active and the Primary unit is standby  I have tried 'failover reset', 'failover active', and 'failover reload-standby' as well as executing reloads on both units in a variety of orders, and they don't come back Primary/Active Secondary/Standby.
Essentially, think of failover as a command that tells the units to try to make the secondary be the active unit, and like many configuration commands, no failover removes the action.
Thanks to everyone for your time and help, though.
Is there something I can query (IOS or SNMP) to check for hardware issues?
If you run failover active, please run it on the primary (currently standby) firewall.
This should also work on PIXes with relatively recent OSes.
I don't believe the PIX provides a facility to allow automatic preemption when the primary firewall is ready to process traffic again.
At least with ASA5500 series units, what you want is to run the following on VPN-Primary:
The only thing in my arsenal that I haven't tried is driving to the data center and performing a hard reboot, which I hate to do.
Please DO NOT use the no failover command as mentioned by natacado.