This won't fix the issue, but might help a little.
If I do this, I can usually find the culprit and still have half a dozen apps running with a dozen Windows open.
I don't know what large programs are you running, but Firefox with even more than 20 opened tabs should work without freezing your laptop.
Dan over at Dan's Data has a page about other resource limits in Windows XP.
Also in task manager, look for processes with really big memory.
I experienced similar issues until I upped the limits on this machine, which has 4GB of physical memory.
I general start by closing any extra Internet Explorer windows.
It's probably not memory you're running out of, but available handles or desktop heap.
Then I open up task manager, sort by CPU and see if something is popping to the top of the list too much.
I haven't had any troubles since increasing these values.
My handle limit is currently set to 18,000, my system heap to 8M, and my desktop heap to 512k.
Sometimes I need to kill iexplore processes in task manager even though all the browser windows have been closed.
If I closed up spreadsheets or word documents that I need, I can always reopen them quickly with the File menu choices 1, 2, 3, 4 etc.
If it is Firefox (and Flash) that are hogging resources, I'd recommend the AFOM addon to reduce memory leakage.
First thing you should try is some handy utilities to detect and remove spyware and other 'garbage' things, similar to AdAware.
If Firefox is running I kill the process in Task Manager because it saves the tabs and restores them upon restart.
You should start closing things when you notice the machine getting sluggish, or the fan getting consistently noisier, or the drive rattling noisily on and on.
With Google Chrome, I generally close tabs with known problem sites like Google Mail and Yahoo Mail.
They are probably causing too much disk activity by swapping in and out.
All in all, I can usually sort out the problem without a reboot, and without losing much of my working context.
You can expand that up to 9 in the options, I believe.
But, no it is not normal for a superuser to reboot when this happens.
Yes it is normal for Windows, especially when it has been running for several days.