. . iRAPP is an application that gives you cohesive, interactive access to a Mac via your PC.
Worldwide leader in Mac Terminal Services and Provider of the first Mac Terminal Server.
You can choose to view the Mac in a blended session with Windows and OS operating systems into one window, or you may use the built in Remote Desktop Protocol to view it in a separate window.
Although it mentions Tiger, these steps work on Leopard as well.
Actually, there are two solutions to this problem that I know of.
I tried using it and had some problems logging in, but it seems to be a lot like MS RDP, and can use the same clients.
As for the clients, Leopard's built in "Screen Sharing" is based on VNC, but it cannot connect to third-party servers.
Multiple simultaneous GUI sessions are possible using a third-party VNC server.
Both use RDP to connect to a background user session that can be accessed while another user is logged in at the actual machine.
Using this method, new secondary sessions cannot be created in the background.
We Provide solutions for all industries including FileMaker and Creative Suite Users, to organizations looking to deploy Mac OS X on Windows or create multi-user iPhone or iPad SDK environments.
http://www.9to5mac.com/54102/10-7-lion-allows-multi-user-remote-computing/
Copy and paste, save documents, open programs, share files – download a free 14-day trial now!"
irapp looks to be the more consumer friendly choice, IMHO.
You have to create them using the Finder's normal "fast user switching".
Other alternatives to Mac Virtualization include Mac Remote Desktop.
You will need separate client software as well (e.g.
This page describes the procedure for Vine Server (OSXvnc).
This just allows you to access the GUI sessions that you've switched away from, without interfering with the foreground GUI session.
Either way, iRAPP allows you to open and work on Mac applications right on your PC within the Windows environment.
"Use your Mac and PC simultaneously through a single monitor, mouse, and keyboard.