Long cable runs are great at eating up 2.4GHz and 5GHz signals.
My suggestion to you would be to put up smart antennas.
You might want to actually calculate your "link budget" for both your outbuilding as well as separately for your mobile devices.
Beware that most online Wi-Fi range extension information pertains to single-radio designs from the a/b/g days.
You might want an inexpensive antenna booster http://www.freeantennas.com/projects/template2/
Smart antennas are already in use in some locations.
If you do buy antenna cable, only buy antenna cable that lists its 2.4GHz attenuation per meter.
You need to look at how long the cable run is going to be, between where you where thinking of mounting the AP and where you were thinking of mounting the antenna(s).
Basically your requirement for ADSL2+ limits your choices, especially in the long distance and custom firmware capable routers.
There are online tools to help you do that, such as this:
It can be used for directional broadcasting and frequency controls to achieve much more efficient use of radio spectrum, and therefore increasing the capacity of the system.
802.11n is trickier because to get the highest rates, it uses more than one radio (the spec allows up to 4, but most gear just uses 2 or 3), so if you buy 802.11n gear and want to get 802.11n rates out of it, you need 2 or 3 separate antennas on each end, somehow set up so they don't interfere with each other too much.
Start with a site survey and then work out what type of antenna will provide coverage bearing in mind eirp limits in UK.
Remember that you can put a high-gain directional antenna on the outbuilding, but you're right to put an omnidirectional antenna on your main building.
That way you could mount the access point and antenna at the best possible location whilst minimizing antenna feeder losses.
You need an access point which will accept an external antenna.
Possibly one that uses power over ethernet if power is not available where you would like to mount the access point.
It may be better to buy an outdoor-ruggedized, Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) capable AP, mount that on a pole on your roof, and run Ethernet to it.
http://huizen.deds.nl/~pa0hoo/helix_wifi/linkbudgetcalc/wlan_budgetcalc.html