Another scenario on a Windows 10 system is when a (here, 64 Gb, no readyboost) flash drive is physically removed while the system is in hibernation.
When a drive is being written to I have seen corruption when it was dismounted too early.
While the OS doesn't hold data unwritten normally XP at least will accept write requests that back up.
I have to reboot the pc with the drive in to make it writable again.. most definatly annoying!
The only way then to fully re-attach the device is simply to physically disconnect and re-connect the unit.
To bypass the error (along with the requisite chkdsk action producing a chk fragment or two, and "recovering" the otherwise perfectly healthy drive), we try the right_click_on_drive_to_eject, or dismount the stick.
After the system soft boots from the hibernate, a move or copy of any changed files on the flash stick may incur a file or directory is corrupt and unreadable error.
Fine, but when the user then disables/enables it in Devices, the drive will not appear in any explorer windows, and still shows up as No Media in Disk Management.
If the system is performing file operations on the disk, there's a chance it'll corrupt data.
If I just unplug it without a clean mount, next time I plug it in it'll make the drive read-only.
I have seen the write light flicker for some seconds after something supposedly has finished copying to a flash drive also.
This way I've trashed 3 external Backup HDDs, and lost Data in the amount close to 2 terabyte.
Use common sense to decide whether or not there's a chance your OS is performing operations.
Thus it's preferable to gracefully dismount the device before unplugging it.
You may thing nothing is accessing the USB drive, but in truth something is.
Unmount it to be safe (if you are totally paranoid), but as already mentioned data loss mainly occurs due to delayed writes.
(Are there programs/files from the drive open/in use?
There is one other thing though and thats to do with my WD essentials portable drive.
I have had someone copy a file onto a flash drive and immediately hand it to me once the copy finished on his screen--the file was corrupt.