A fun mechanism is vital, but there is also another ingredient.
When we get to this fragile state of mind, we call that being "in the zone".
If it's very complex, we will also get bored because we are unable to grasp the concepts that enables us to win the game/paint nicely/play clarinet beautifully.
Design something fun for you and then you just have to find others who enjoy it.
Remember when you learned how to play Tic-tac-toe?
That's an important thing to achieve when designing a game, and watch people who play if they're in the zone, whether they're playing WoW or minesweeper.
When we begin doing any activity (being playing a game, playing an instrument, painting, etc.)
http://www.cracked.com/article_18461_5-creepy-ways-video-games-are-trying-to-get-you-addicted_p1.html
That's why you see a lot of advice telling people to create games for themselves.
If the activity is too complex, we also get bored and we opt out of it.
For games that requires reflexion and simples actions (meaning not immersive games), it requires artistic genius.
assuming that we like what we are doing, if it's very simple, we will get bored quickly because our brain concludes that it took everything he needed and can predict now the next steps.
It can seem you have to imagine you are being god and designing a world and its rules, and it can seem inappropriate, but that's the only way a game can be fun: you have to distort reality, not change it.
BUT that doesn't you should not experiment, that is strongly encouraged, but if you want to implement an idea, don't forget that:
Take pop culture item, draw it with cute colorful cartoon art, advertise the hell out of it, offer a free demo, and make it a super Casual game with shiny things and little "ding" sounds going off all the time.
If it's fun for you then it's not wasted effort and someone, somewhere will also enjoy it.
It's not because it's virtual that you can invent any rule you think is a good one and say "it'll work, it's genius": It's great that virtuality allows to do anything you want, but players want to have fun, not test your ideas.
I think this article perfectly answers the question :)
we start to do exactly that: learn what are the best strategies to do best what we like to do.
He basically proposes that we humans are living things that love watching and learning patterns everywhere.
We basically want to get better at things, and games are a powerful learning tool.
So games are especialized in that: they present an activity with a carefully balanced difficulty setting, so the game is easy on us when we learn the controls, but as we gain experience playing it, the difficulty keeps rising and rising.
I would recommend you to read A Theory of Fun for Game Design, written by Raph Koster, an experienced game designer who started as a writer.
Unfortunately, there's not a recipe to creating fun; I think you just stumble upon it and you're surprised by it.
For games which are "immersive"-kinded (where you control one of several character in a virtual environment), it is less complicated, but it requires to have played other genre-alike games.
Games offer simple mechanisms that add themselves up to enable players to do really complex stuff (e.g.
see how a player who loves playing fighting games learns to play those games).
How do we find the people who will enjoy the game?
If the activity is simple enough to know those strategies quickly, then that activity becomes boring.
You should also read the Princess Rescuing Application slides, by Daniel Cook, which also present an insight on how games trap us.
You have to implement mechanisms that make the player think he is in a world, make a reward system, but keeping all this simple, quick and more importantly, coherent.
it was a pretty fun game until you understood how to play it, and what strategies you used to win or tie every time.
Anyway, trying to make a successful game is like designing by committee, it hardly ever turns out like you wanted.