I don't think it is part of the default start menu program entries.
My solution ended up being to open the task manager and run outlook.exe /profiles from the "run new task" option under files.
Is there some magic string I can type in to get that menu item?
They have thin-clients for their contractors to check email and use other office products and the like.
In the case of Mail (32-Bit) this would be control mlcfg32.cpl
Normally I just go the long way, but with Windows 8 and Metro I'm concerned I'm going to get very frustrated trying to talk users through it over the phone.
Right click on the Mail (32-bit) item in the Control Panel, then hit Create shortcut.
The HR person then took over and tried to setup Outlook, but did not do it correctly.
I had to reset the profile to stop the explorer from crashing and restarting.
I always circumvent oddities of the start menu by letting users directly execute the startup command line through the execute dialog (best way to get there is to use the Windows+R keystroke as the "Execute" menu item is disabled in some variants of the Start Menu).
mlcfg32.cpl is located in your Office installation path, so typically %PROGRAMFILES%\Microsoft Office\Office <Version> and this one is inserted into the system-wide %PATH% upon installation, so unless the %PATH% is being messed with, it should work out of the box.
Once you're in that folder, you can right click somewhere empty and hit paste or use Ctrl+V.
I thought I would share this, I know this is an old string.
As the control panel has become a real mess lately - nearly impossible to navigate anyone through on the phone - even navigating through the folders presents a more coherent user experience.
Now, to get it into Start, right click on the shortcut on your desktop and choose Cut (or just press the Ctrl+X shortcut).
Next, rename the shortcut to be something you want without the pointless "shortcut" ending.
The profile would not open correctly due to an apparent typo.
Now, a) it will appear when you search whatever you titled the shortcut, and b) it will appear when you go to All Apps.
I find myself often visiting the Mail control panel for people I'm helping who use Outlook.
Unfortunately, the session is completely locked down.
Then, go to Start and type in the search box %appdata%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs and hit Enter.
However, it never, ever shows up in the start menu for anyones computer:
If not, you still can navigate to the office folder and run it from there.
A client that I'm not the engineer for called and need help.
If you want you can also pin it to Start by right clicking the shortcut in All Apps and choosing Pin to Start.