If you do a clean install (*) of Windows 8 (for example with an ISO from MSDN) on an computer which came preinstalled with Windows 8, will it recognize that it already has a license?
Speculation: the OEM product key was stored elsewhere on the machine, detected, and employed rather than asking the user to supply a product key.
Depending on the manufacture, you may be able to reinstall using the product code with an copy of Windows 8.
However, these OEM licenses often have the manufacture fields filled out and will validate on this when reinstalling which means that the same version/nonmanufacture media may not work.
As I understand it, OEM computers that come with Windows 8 preinstalled has the license/product key stored in the BIOS/on the motherboard somewhere.
You will not get a Certificate of Authenticity (COA) period.
The COA is in the BIOS, all you will have is a small square Windows 8 logo decal.
If I image a Win7x86 on it, keeping all hardware exactly as it was, the embedded COA is useless even if I manually entered the key which I extracted from the registry earlier.
My final istallation was a copy of windows 8 (non pro).
The key will have an OEM block on it and will not activate and Lenovo has said to me "not our problem purchase a retail license".
Futhermore, a check on the last 5 digits of the product key applied on my installation reflected a different product key than the one shipped with the system builder DVD.
Personal: I build a new box every two years so the fact that my product key was never requested doesn't impact me; my purchased personal use license for W8 pro will be used eventually.
During the installation, I was never asked to input a product key.
In many instances now our clients are paying twice for an OS.
I purchased a system builders DVD for windows 8 pro to install onto the new, entirely blank SSD.
However, it will not take you through the normal installation process.
(And excuse me if I have the terms confused, hopefully the meaning comes across.)
I just tried to install Windows 8.1 on my laptop, that originally came with Windows 8, and it asked me for a key.
Microsoft will hide under the veil of "Piracy" but really they are just looking for another revenue stream.
Many clients cannot use x64 for there specialized software.
I purchased an ACER M5 with a pre-loaded OEM version of windows 8, similarly there was no affixed sticker stating the product key.
Or will it require you to purchase a new Windows 8 license to activate it?
(*) Wiping the drive, perhaps because it has been corrupted in some way and ordinary recovery/repair is impossible.
If you are using downloaded/purchased media to install Windows 8 to the same version that you have, check the side of the computer or the bottom of it for the Product Code.
If the OEM machine has a UEFI which is an interface between your OS and the BIOS then your OS will use Activation 3.0 whether Windows 7 or 8.
No efforts towards imaging or maintaining of the original HHD were performed.
I've read elsewhere that the key is maintained in the BIOS for new OEMs from major PC manufactures to simplify reporting to Microsoft.
The only way that it will recognize the license is if it has Restore Media or a Restore Partition in which case it will re-image your machine.
So they actually force you to install and then update manually.
I removed the original hard drive and upgraded to a new SSD.
I'm receiving Lenovo desktops now preloaded with Win7x64 and included Win8 upgrade media at our depot now.
Rather than discuss something I don't know or understand like many of the poster's above (who seem to be leveraging former experiences with prior OSes) I will state my experience and you can accept it for it is.