Interim Fix (maybe): I've had mixed results with this, but if you open Task Manager (Ctrl-Alt-Del Task Manager) and quit Explorer (note desktop will go blank and start menu goes away), and then run Explorer again, all the problems temporarily disappear and things work properly.
An alert appear saying that the html register was changed, windows associated back Microsoft Edge to default html file handler.
I could fix it by restoring files the folder %WINDIR%\Installer which I had previously removed in order to save disk space on the system drive.
Root Cause: if your combined PATH environment variables are more than 2048 characters, then it (and WINDIR) stop being visible in many contexts.
Atom was the default text editor for my .html file.
I experienced this problem also for the Startmenu and the Taskbar.
This tutorial show you how to reset the windows register for a particular extension file.
I deleted %userprofile%\AppData\Local\IconCache.db before but it didn't work at this time, maybe the two combined makes it work for me.
I downloaded the default html register and merge it to mine (run the reg file).
In the end I went to the actual game icon folder and copied it to a different folder on the desktop and then pointed the icon there by right clicking choosing properties and then pointing to the icon you have copied elsewhere.
FIX/Solution:  Reduce the PATH variable to be under 2048 characters in total.
My problem was appearing with Atom text editor, I couldn't see the icon on file (in windows explorer) anymore when Atom was set as default editor for this file type.
You can then retry the interim fox and all should be well, and once you safely reboot, the solution should stick.
Of course this only helps for programs/apps that use MSI aka Windows Installer.
The only html register fix all my problem, I was able to see atom's file icon again on all the atom's associated extensions, and on all the new associated extension.
And then I set Atom as default html editor again and icons appear !
I had this issue, and found the root cause, immediate work-around, and long term fix:
This may cause start menu items/programs to be "not found", even though they are in fact there, and work if run manually from
Deleting unused or not needed entries so the total is under 2048 characters in total (from the PATH variable) should fix the issue.
I tried most of the other answers and had some success one of my icons changed back.
Click the Environment Variables button at the bottom and review the entries.