This is the same reason why Cat-5 and fiber links have distance limitations.
but ive been looking on the internet and this is a Layer 2 router.
If you absolutely need to do this, you will need to establish a layer-2 tunnel between the locations.
The routers at each end will, because of their VLAN interfaces and static routing table entries, automatically tag traffic with the appropriate VLAN tags and drop them onto the Ethernet.
Router would have helped in connecting from one network to another.
(This is assuming that the link between sites is secure and encryption is not required.)
If you have layer 2 link between you site, just use a switch.
In your 2821's, you'd setup an IPSEC tunnel between the sites.
In any case although it is bad design I think switch will be more useful then router.
You can certainly use the same vlan numbers at both locations and just have a layer-3 link in the middle.
http://blog.dest-unreach.be/2009/05/05/ethernet-over-ip-l2tp-on-cisco
You'll need to configure the switches at both ends with trunk ports to connect the routers to, and you'll have to figure out how to integrate the Site A router into your existing routing topology re: the existing ASA-5505, but this should give you enough to go on to get started.
If the propagation delay is to long, you will get a lot retransmissions (at best).
The IP addresses will be different at each location, but the vlan numbers could be the same.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_0s/feature/guide/l2tpv325.html
For you application any layer 2 or layer 3 manageable switch that can do trunking using VTP (VLAN Trunking Protocol) is more than enough.
You do not need router to connect vlans at two sites as same VLANs are required at both sides.
Extending a broadcast domain over a WAN is not a good idea.
Should i request to have a different router which is layer 3 or should i request a layer 3 switch to plug into that router?
I would highly suggest you do some additional investigation into the technical and business requirements.
Are you using subinterfaces and vlans OR are you using seperate ethernet interface for each LAN segment.
For every TCP packet that a machine sends, it is expecting an ACK back within a certain period of time -- if it does not get one it will have to retransmit (assuming the connection is able to be established at all).
Once you've got that, you'll create VLAN interfaces on the routers on each end, assigning the routers IP addresses in each VLAN:
As example, one of the vlans will be use for the ip phones at both sites.
Im going to be given a Cisco 2821 router at either end.
I don't know where you've gotten this "layer 2 router" business from (the statement is an oxymoron in itself), but a 2821 is a perfectly capable IP router.
It is generally not a good idea to extend layer-2 (vlans) across long distances.
But as you talk about router I guess your site are connected with layer 3 so you can use L2TP to do Layer 2 over Layer 3 (4 in fact).
Let's call your existing location "site A" and the new location "site B".
Ive never done VLAN before, in our own LAN i create subnets physically by using CISCO ASA 5505.
Assuming you've set the IPSEC tunnel up properly w/ the proper addresses being excluded from NAT, traffic between the various subnets in the sites will be transparently encrypted and sent to the other end.
You may also need an appliance at both ends to do local ACKs and re-timing of the packets.
We now have added a new site and Ive been requested to create a VPN connection and 2 or 3 VLANs between 2 sites, this is the same VLANs in site 1 to have them in site 2.
Just trunk VLANs from both side on the interface that is common to both sides and similar VLANs on both sides will get connected.
Here's a decent example using a static key: http://www.cisco.com/en/US/tech/tk583/tk372/technologies_configuration_example09186a0080094634.shtml
You don't want to extend a layer 2 broadcast domain across a VPN.
This may be a good time to dig a little deeper and ask some more questions to try and determine what the goals are verse having someone who may not have the technical background say "I want vlans".
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/prod/collateral/iosswrel/ps6537/ps6549/ps6587/prod_white_paper0900aecd8066d3f5.html