Microsoft is working on a resolution and will provide an update in an upcoming release.
dism /online /remove-package /packagename:Package_for_RollupFix~31bf3856ad364e35~x86~~16299.248.1.17
I opened my 2 Logitech receivers (as suggested in the youtube video) and the four copper pads appeared highly corroded with a great deal of black oxidation on the leads.
I move over to my laptop (windows 8) with the same receiver and i can use the mouse with no difficulty.
I paid $12 on ebay to purchse two new USB transceivers shipped from hong kong.
Have you tried unplugging the power cord from your computer (and removing the battery in case you're using a laptop) for 30 seconds?
However, you'll have to setup your old devices to the new receiver using Logitech's software.
Method 1: Restoring your system when a working keyboard is available
dism /online /remove-package /packagename:Package_for_RollupFix~31bf3856ad364e35~amd64~~16299.248.1.17
Test your receiver on a different device before claiming its broken.
I must say, you may not have good luck, the manufacturing quality of this USB transceiver is horrible, Logitech, shame on you!
This may occur when the windows update servicing stack incorrectly skips installing the newer version of some critical drivers in the cumulative update and uninstalls the currently active drivers during maintenance.
Use the links for a clearer instruction....they didn't copy well into this.
If the Receiver isn't being recognized it is not necessarily broken.
My Logitech USB receiver had similar problems to those above.
The link below shows you how to go into the Device Manager and command prompt to uninstall the last update.
I could not get them to work by stuffing a piece of paper between the circuit board and USB housing, as suggested in the video, but I was able to hold the USB receiver inside the laptop USB port with my hand and it was recognized.
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4074588/windows-10-update-kb4074588
There is something about windows 7 64 bit that is having issues with this.
Not sure if it only uninstalled it or if it uninstalled and then re-installed with a fix, but my mouse and keyboard are working again.
Right-click (or tap and hold) Command Prompt in the search results and select Run as administrator.
After installing the February 13, 2018 security update, KB4074588 (OS Build 16299.248), some USB devices and onboard devices, such as a built-in laptop camera, keyboard or mouse, may stop working for some users.
Turned out it was a problem with the last Windows Update 2/13/2018.
USB devices may stop working after installing the February 13, 2018 update (KB4074588)
However a few moments later and I probably quivered and lost electrical contact, and it said, "USB port not recognized" after having formerly recognized it.
Although after a fresh install of Windows 8, my receiver picked up the mouse just fine without any of the Logitech software.
After installing this update, some USB devices and onboard devices, such as a built-in laptop camera, keyboard or mouse, may stop working.
The receiver should be recognised and working again the next time you start windows.
If a working wireless or PS2 keyboard is available, or if you can use the on-screen keyboard via a working touchscreen, follow these steps to restore your USB functionality:
This issue occurs when the Windows Update servicing stack incorrectly skips installing the newer version of some critical drivers in the cumulative update and uninstalls the currently active drivers during maintenance.
This may have to be done with each new computer you use the mouse/new unifying receiver with.
You probably need a new receiver, or you can follow the youtube video, take apart the nub, and try to put it together so it will work.
It will work in some laptops and not others depending upon how well-made (and worn out) the laptop USB port is.
I plugged my t600 receiver into my pc (win 7 64bit) and i am having these same problems.
This is typical behavior of a broken/worn down unifying receiver.
This is often an electrical problem between the USB receiver and the laptop USB port.
In the Command Prompt window, type the command listed below for your version of Windows and press ENTER.