It's interesting that git initializes the repo in /cygdrive/c/src/project/dev/.git/ even though you told it to use ~/src/project/dev (unless you have your home directory in a strange place).
It's possible you have a metacharacter, such as &, in the URL.
Obviously, you should set appropriately draconian permissions on the file.
If it's a repository you use often, the easiest thing may be to create a ~/.netrc file with
Try a git clone from a different repo, or using a different transport from the same repo, to see if git is messed up generally or just for this repo.
Years ago I remember having some problems with Cygwin's CVS authentication... it was to do with whether you installed Cygwin with the DOS or Unix style line endings (CRLF vs just LF); it's one of the options on the installer dialog.
A ; would also terminate the command partway through the line, and the Ctrl-C would cause the rest of the line (a separate command) to be aborted.
This would suggest that the git command is not seeing the rest of the command line, which is what would happen if there was a stray & or ; in the URL.
(I've had this problem lots of times with wget, although not with git.)
If you picked the wrong one (I think DOS was the one which worked) the password would end up mangled or with a spurious character or something.
This would cause git to run in the background, and on a Unix system it would be stopped as soon as it tried to read from stdin.
You could also try putting single quotes around the URL.
Take a look at the following issue - I'm fairly certain now it's just a limitation of mintty and interoperability with Windows.
I've also had problems running mysql and such from mintty - so, the answer is that it's a terminal emulation problem.
I'm still looking for a proper solution, but there's a workaround - although it's very insecure, you can try placing the password in repository URL, e.g.
I have the same problem, and, contrary to this thread, the problem occurs with Cygwin GIT in all possible terminals - puttycyg, mintty and the classical Windows cmd.exe.