Later, if players rejoin that raid, the raid server is queried based on dungeon type/name, server name and character name.
Once logged in, a list of available game servers, and player counts for each server is populated and presented to the user.
Steam servers provide the framework for logins, but the developers will provide a lobby, which provides a list of available game servers.
If not, a new instance is created and the players join as normal.
The game client's first point of contact is the login server.
When complete and all players leave, after a designated amount of time, the instance of that server is destroyed, unless it is a raid, in which case the progress (which bosses have been defeated) are saved to a database, along with the character names, game server name, and all participating players is saved to a database.
If the maximum number of players is reached in a login, or lobby server, players is placed in a queue, and informed to wait or try later.
Pretty much every multiplayer game uses this same basic architecture, though with differences specific to the type of game.
The players are then joined to this server to play the instance.
When a group of character decides to run a dungeon or raid, another "lobby" server is joined which creates an instance of a smaller game server, in which the self contained dungeon exists.
Even with smaller multiplayer environments on Steam, this principle still applies.
This server processes your username and password, and interfaces with some form of use database, and handles privileges for certain users such as admins.
Once a game server is selected, the list of characters for the selected server is displayed (if any), and the option to join the server with the selected character, or create a new one.
If an entry is found, an instance is created with the appropriate settings (defeated bosses missing).
Scaling, when necessary, is done rather naively, with performance/stress testing dictating the maximum number of players, which is then provided as configuration data as an upper limit.