The only place cheaper I've found yet appears to be very shady and has lots of negative reviews online.
I paid something like $50-$80 for it and its been working great for over a year now.
The comfort of using PayPal and being able to put the transaction into dispute if the goods are not up to spec.
If it wasn't for the label I would never have been able to tell the difference.
I bought a off-brand replacement battery for my old/spare Fujitsu laptop in Thailand.
I haven't tried non-"genuine" batteries in Dell laptops but I have tried tried them in several other brands.
Avoid the total "bargain basement/too good to be true" deals though.
I happened to be over there so I stopped by their "IT Mall" in Bangkok.
I have used off-brand batteries for Acer laptop before - in fact they were purchased via ebay from some outfit in China, and they charged me half price because it was a prototype.
But the short answer is... go for it... buy the generic battery.
The company I work for uses a lot of laptops, and as such goes through a lot of batteries.
Basically your laptop battery is nothing but a certain number and type of cells put into a plastic case.
If you need the most performance possible on a single charge, opt for the OEM.
I purchase OEM batteries on our more current laptops, and aftermarket on our older ones.
If you're fine with slightly lower performance and don't mind swapping out/charging sooner, then aftermarket will be fine.
Not only are they the cheapest online source I've found, they're also dependable and make good batteries (they buy the old casings and electronics and put new LiIon cells in them).
I investigated both aftermarket and OEM batteries, and every single OEM battery had a higher rating than its aftermarket counterpart.
If you're feeling really adventurous you can CAREFULLY take the plastic battery case apart and figure out which cell(s) are bad then simply order replacements (or all brand new ones) and solder them all back up.
I HIGHLY recommend buying the types of cells that already have the soldering tab attached to them as soldering directly onto the end of a battery can be a bit dangerous (ie.
There's really not a whole lot of difference between "Dell" and generic provided that the generic cells are reasonable quality.
I've already bought 4 replacement batteries from them.
When making your decision just remember that Dell don't make those batteries, they buy them in, so in some respects there is no such thing as a genuine Dell battery.