I'd love to hear why you can trust them for webhosting but not for email, have you detected a specific problem?
That being said (Robert - good answer) there are juridsictions where you get into painful ltrouble when using the normal web hosting email or gmail.
This would not be specific to any hosting, thougg, it covers peretty much all of them.
Using your webhost or a normal Linux local email service and we have a dispute over something?
So for business use is it safe to use the email hosting that is included with hosting package or go with a professional email provider?
Now a valid reason to move in my eyes would be features - there might be a reason to move to a more fully featured dedicated email provider if you will use the extra features they can give...
I work in a company who uses their web-hosting as their email provider, they use it for normal send, receive and basic contacts management, they use it in customers support, sales and marketing, I would prefer to use a dedicated or professional email hosting instead for this type of work.
This is a little known fact... and one reason Exchange for example  has arvhiving methods server side available.
Or are they "trustworthy" but clueless on the email side of things (in which case maybe there's problems with the hosting that you don't know about)?
You violated company law.... because you ned to keep email archives for 10 years in a way that is not manipulatable by normal emmployees.
In a simple dispute (for example about warranty) that can then turns nasty becasue the accusation that you (as a company) do not keep your books in order for examlple turns around the legal argument (you have to proove I am wrong - not me I am right, because obviously you are too sloppy to keep your paperwork).
That's my answer I guess, they're either safe to use for everything or not safe at all.
Failure to properly handle them is... a falure to run the business proper.
IMHO they're either professional and trustworthy enough to host everything or nothing at all; I can't imagine a scenario where I'd trust another business only a little bit and still be happy to give them any business.
Emails are business documents, like invoices, contracts.