And that flash storage devices are cheap and easy to obtain.
Since there wouldn't be a lot of writing involved all the time, the flash drive's lifespan isn't reduced that significantly right?
Or maybe somehow in addition, get the filesystem driver to use fresh blocks for all allocations instead of old ones to maximize flash cell lifespan?
Your suggestion of doing so once in 5 hours isn't that far removed from what the good quality ones are designed for.
Using it as an extra backup, with sequential writes (no often overwriting), might be a good idea, but i woul definitely keep my "main" backups somewhere safe (hdd raid, or tape, or both).
On the assumption you're going to replace this backup solution completely in 2 years.
This makes it less off a professional server question.
(This is after all a site for giving / getting answers not comparing the size of each other's paycheck).
Make sure your backup solution is verifying each backup (SD wear should be detectable if you also store check-sums of the files) and swap between two or more so that if one fails you're not more a day or two behind.
What is your data worth to you / your company / your client?
So only consider using an SD card if loosing that server's data would be an annoyance (couple of weeks work wasted) and nothing more.
If you write logs there, or copy something every couple of seconds (or have a /tmp dir there), that's not going to last long.
NOTE: I'm no hired IT, I have a low budget and run a home server if that's any specific.
Remember that backing up every 5 hours is only changing each sector every 5 hours.
Reason I want to do this is to avoid using up bandwidth for network backups, and there aren't any other local servers to perform such backups without overall internet latency.
However there are some simple tests that can be applied to this kind of question regardless of scale of economy.
I've had some experience with failed flash drivers, and usually the main problem was the controller, not the flash chip itself, but I still wouldn't use it for main backup.
Remember that photographers fill up and clear down these daily.
Also I'm looking to backup are web directories and SQLServer DBs.
$70 is cheap for protecting the average home business data for two years.
Oddly a backup that completely overwrites the card is one of the least intensive uses of one.
The price of a sizable SD card these days is almost as cheap as many of us pay for a coffee.
Why not take a look at software like CrashPlan (free) and do versioned synchronization from one machine to another that that has a large disk just for backups from other machines.
If I were to use a flash storage device on a server, a portable one specifically, and backups written to it periodically every 5 hours or so, would there be much wear to the flash drive to the point of depending on it as a reliable fallback to data recovery?
What's interesting with this question is the shoestring budget.
If you write one backup per day, that's a long, long time.
Most newer controllers have wear leveling, and change the location of blocks (they have a couple of them extra), so the wear is distributed across the whole flash chip.
That being said, the other answer is valid, they are unreliable and too small.
Its not the number of bytes you write, but the number of times you change an individual byte) What really kills them is letting a program use them for temp space (as some programs will automatically do the moment you edit a file directly on the flash drive).
This will only help you with data unfortunately, not system state operating system recovery.
If your client cannot afford more than $70 to backup data, look for a better paying gig.
Flash chips usually have limited write cycles, so you can overwrite each 'sector' only  times (~10.000).