If you already have a technical helpdesk position, talk to your supervisor & the sysadmin supervisor and let them know you're interested in becoming an admin.
However, I would only look at this to know you're on the same page, and that when someone says layer 3 / layer 4 networking, you understand what they mean.
IT is methodical, and repetitive at all levels the only thing that changes it who you interact with on a daily basis.
Know how to patch a server with minimal interuptions, or what config changes can break everything.
My recommendation would be to look for a higher level / more technical help desk position and clearly state you're looking to move up to a Jr. Admin position.
If you can show you've done the work, but just didn't have the title, you'll have a much better chance of being considered.
I've seen and talked to very motivated, talented people whose resumes told their stories terribly.
If the first time you did a linux install was for a class 6 years ago, you have 6 years of linux experience.
Use the helpdesk position to get a feel for the company's systems and policies - go above & beyond "just doing the job", offer to help out the sysadmin group in exchange for training when you have spare time during the work day or in the evenings.
As an aside, network administration isn't a better job then helpdesk, it's a different job!
Get a couple crappy machines, and set them up and run them like a production environment.
Certifications are nice, but practical experience is priceless...
On your resume, highlight the work you did with the sysadmin group and the training you received.
Switching hats for a minute here, if you're not getting interviews you need to focus on that resume.
I don't put too much faith in certifications as having actually used the equipment, but it definitly won't hurt.
For an entry level admin position, most companies will be looking for someone with at least a few years experience, as you've noticed...
I would easily substitute this for working knowledge.
Now, the other thing is I don't work in pure IT, but we're a telecommunications company, so we can't find experienced people to begin with (some of our platforms have as few as 5 people to run and manage a national network in Canada, but handle more than 4 million unique users per day).
See if you can take responsibility for some of the sysadmin group's basic daily tasks.
Take the time to learn about good resume writing or work with someone to make this piece of paper something that doesn't get pitched.
We do alot of networking/unix/databases in our shop, so stuff like CCNA, solaris, oracle courses are helpfull.
If you can't find joy working at one level... you will get bored at higher levels.
So we have to look for that drive, that willingness to understand, and nothing helps more than to be somewhat geeky, and demonstrate that in the interview process that you are deeply intrigued and motivated on the platforms you would be working on.
This is absolutely critical, perhaps above all else, You have to start teaching yourself now for the job you think you'll want in a year or two.
After a couple years, if it doesn't look like you'll have the opportunity to move up, ask your current employer if they'd be willing to recommend you for a jr. admin position elsewhere.
I've sat on the other side of the interview desk a few times in the last year, and all I can say is stuff you do in you're spare time counts as experience.
No that doesn't count as experience, but others will pickup on it, and you will find yourself a valued commodity.
Take every opportunity to learn from them, and there's a very good chance you'll be considered for the next opening.
And then during the interview, you have something really valuable to hit during you're interview, use any chance to bring up that you've operated a platform like the company you're working for, and had to write a script to alert you to low disk space, whatever it is it helps, and to me that counts as experience.