A good place to start would be the Conepts guide and then perhaps the 2 Day DBA guide followed by the Administrator's Guide.
For a small team there's rarely enough work for a full-time DBA (and/or there are DBAs, but the production DBAs don't want to get involved with supporting the dev/test environments), so a tester or programmer will be expected to pick up that role, and I've seen people getting suddenly landed with "hey, Joe's leaving, so you're now our new DBA.
Also, the person should have something like a dba profile, If you don't like it you would be doing something that brings no excitement and you will have no satisfaction from your work.
Firstly, if Dev is down the the developers, testers etc can't work - this is costing the company money, maybe not as much as the cost of Prod being down, but it all counts, especially these days.
Remember that EVERYONE is on the same team when it comes to getting paid.
), it is very hard to try to learn the db even if documentation exists.
I think people in this situation should talk to anyone who knows about the database (the data flow, the design choices, common task, etc.
Secondly, they are making a rod for their own backs if poor practices in Dev make it through to Prod - for example use of dynamic literal SQL instead of bind variables.
What basic tasks should they aim to tackle first, just to keep things ticking over?
If your going to be "The DBA" (part or full time) you should learn as much as you can before the former DBA leaves.
No, we have no training budget, you'll have to teach yourself.
However, in small development teams, it's not uncommon in my experience for one of the team to be nominated as the de-facto DBA.
If they still refuse, then escalate it to your manager.
The time to catch this is early as possible in the development process, fixing a problem becomes exponentially more difficult and expensive the closer you get to Prod.
Luckily, this isn't a current issue for me, as in my current workplace we're pretty well supplied with DBA knowledge in the team.
If you are in this situation the first thing you should do is make sure you know where the documentation for the database product is and start reading it.
Initially the focus should be on backup and recovery because if you don't get that right the other responsibilities of a DBA don't matter.
So my answer to your question, the ideal learning resource for a part-time/Dev DBA is the full-time Prod DBAs in your organization - you just need to show them that any training they give you is a win-win situation for you, them and the organization as a whole.
What resources can you recommend for someone who finds themselves suddenly in the position of having to get up to speed with a development DBA role?
IMHO it's wrong for Production DBAs to overlook the Dev environment.
If the database is Oracle for example, find the appropriate documentation site for the release you are on from http://tahiti.oracle.com/.