Computer seems much faster, and hard-drive usage has dropped to 1%.
Random access disk caching is extremely slow in all operating systems in general, but Windows 8 is particularly bad with it in my experience.
Technically speaking, realign unaligned partitions will cause no data loss, all you files will be kept intact.
Have you done any tests on your hard drive or memory?
Acronis has alignment tools for Western Digital and HGST(Hitachi) respectively to check whether the hard disk is properly aligned or not, and if it's not, these tools can align it for you.
But you'd better make backups for important files in case of something going wrong.
Mistakenly aligned partitions will cause severe performance problem, much like what you've got.
Seemed to be windows defender real-time scanning was causing the slow down and forcing high disk usage.
If memory stays below a certain threshold, Windows relies less upon Virtual memory and the issue goes away for me.
I've noticed this issue on my brand new Windows 8 laptop and the only solution that I've been able to apply is to disable some of the Windows 8 apps like the built-in mail and messaging, and shut off Google Drive sync and other services that take a lot of memory.
In my case Windows 8 was very painfully slow and hard-drive disk usage at 99% - look in Task Manager, process tab ~(disk usage).
Recently manufactured hard drive larger than 500GB has 4K physical sector, i.e.
I would run a test with Crystal Disk Info on your hard drive (this will run inside of windows) and perhaps memtest86+ on your memory (you will need to download this and burn it to a disk, then boot to it).
Others, including some close friends have been running into this issue yet there is not a lot of information online beyond on how to fix it.
It works for others, but I have just opted to keep below 50% memory usage instead.
In fact it seems to be relatively common and the most popular suggestion seems to be to use the Refresh feature.
My guess is that you hard disk is not "properly aligned to 4K sectors".
I found the problem to be Windows Defender, so I have replaced it with a 3rd party antivirus tool.
If the hard drive has more than one partition, the partitions must be "4K aligned".
Judging from your snapshot, it appears that you're running low on memory and Windows 8 is frantically trying to swap to disk.
I turned off Windows Defender and installed AVG Free instead.