Take advantage of this - You will be glad you did if/when your VOIP environment gets hacked.
In fact, draw it in pencil on a BIG sheet of paper first.
My advice is to follow a similar scheme to the IP assignment I described above:
Each location gets a Class B (/16), and each logical division at a location gets a Class C (/24) for their devices.
It may seem important to you now to know if a box is virtual or physical, but when your monitoring system says "Hey, Email is down!"
Consider these the same as if they were physical machines (segregate them by division/purpose rather than by the fact that they're "virtual".
This network diagram will be your best friend when you have to make changes, explain the network to new admins, or troubleshoot a mysterious failure.
Once you stop cursing and erasing for at least 10 days it's time to put the diagram into Visio/Graffle/Some other electronic format as your official network diagram.
Have a separate division for the Hypervisor/VM Administration network.
My advice is to place everything under the 10.0.0.0/8 subnet, using the following structure: 10.site.division.device
This model is derived from class-based IP assignments: the Class A (/8) is your enterprise.
Every VOIP phone I've seen in the last year supports VLAN segregation (in fact they all support both voice and data VLANs, so you can still use the phone as a pass-thru for desktop ethernet connections).
", not "Which machines are virtual and which are physical?
The idea here is that you can easily determine what a device is and where it is by its address: 10.2.1.100 is an administrator's workstation at "Site #2".
Draw your network on paper before you start assigning addresses and DNS names.
Note that you DO need a practical way of identifying whether a machine is virtual or physical in case a hypervisor host blows up, but this is a challenge for your monitoring system, not your network architecture.
Shove all your VOIP stuff off onto its own subnet, and its own VLAN, and don't let it near anything sensitive.
VOIP (asterisk in particular) is a synonym for "Security Hole".
the question you'll be asking is "Which machines are related to email?
It is possible (and sometimes desirable) to use something larger than a /24 for the "division" level, and you can certainly do so: Anything from a /17 to a /24 is generally fair game with this scheme.
Maintain it in its Most Holy Correctness as you add and remove devices, grow your organization, and modify your network structure.