Assume it will deliver half that so 1.25 amps for 24 hours.
Depending on the model of Pi and what other equipment you have connected e.g.
Connect it inline with the power supply to the Pi.
Ask a separate question please if you'd like to know more.
If that is enough or not will depend on what you have connected and what the Pi is doing.
on the power consumption of the camera unit and on power requirments generally http://www.raspberrypi.org/help/faqs/
As long as the power bank outputs 5V it will power the Pi.
And a final suggestion for now, if you want to be able to charge the battery while powering the Pi relatively few battery packs are capable of doing so.
If your powerbank can't give you that much power use a 12 volt lipo battery with BEC circuit.
Again, you're welcome to ask a separate question if this topic is relevant.
Even with additional safety margin that is plenty to run for 24 hours.
Sources on the Raspberry Pi forums say the Raspberry Pi uses approximately 500mA add in the 250mA for the camera module, and round for a safety margin equals approximately 1A.
The Raspberry Pi FAQs also has several topics that seem relevant e.g.
I use inline USB power meters to monitor the power consumption.
In answer to one of your related questions, I use various sizes of SD-Card, up to 128GB in the older full-sized Model B, and 64GB micro-SD cards in the newer A+ and B+ I use branded, high-speed and relatively expensive models e.g.
I tested a Model B+ running from a 9,000 mAh battery which was configured with a WiPi adapter, running as a web server and WiFi hotspot and it ran for over 12 hours before the battery was exhausted.
My current favourite is http://www.portablepowersupplies.co.uk/portapow-usb-power-monitor-v2/ and I have 10 which I use for my testing of Pi's and power consumption.
I expect the battery you propose would be able to run your Pi for 24 hours.
I suggest you consider trying the Model B+ and the Model A+ (which consumes significantly less power, but may not meet your project's requirements in terms of connectivity, USB ports, or RAM).See http://www.raspberrypi.org/products/ for info on the different Pi models.
You might find one of these helpful in your testing.
https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/719364198/raspberry-pi-case-with-real-time-clock-battery-and
a USB keyboard would also draw some power, as would the camera module.
It claims 50000mAh so it claims 2.5 amps per hour for 24 hours.