A reverse proxy, also known as an "inbound" proxy is a server that receives requests from the Internet and forwards (proxies) them to a small set of servers, usually located on an internal network and not directly accessible from outside.
A "reverse proxy" is an intermediate which protects the request target.
For high-traffic sites, this can be an important benefit, particularly for the home page; many sites see 70% of their traffic go to the home page and no further.
Reverse Proxies will also often be used for caching expensive-to-compute resources; this lets you generate a given page one time per minute (for instance) instead of once per request.
A reverse proxy can be used to provide security for internal resources.
A caching reverse proxy can serve up a static version of this page transparently to the end user without the need for an application rewrite.
Users on the internal network can access intranet servers directly (their IP address is their authentication), but users outside it must authenticate themselves to the proxy server (usually with a username and password) in order to be allowed in.
A proxy is (essentially) an intermediate for a transaction or request.
It then takes that request and forwards it to the Exchange server, acting as a middle-man.
Yes correct, a reverse proxy is very often used for load balancing.
Its most common uses are load balancing and caching.
With Apache mod_proxy and named virtual hosts, you can reverse proxy for multiple sites with a single IP address, depending on whether SSL is involved.
A reverse proxy can be used to allow authenticated users access to an intranet even when they are located outside.
As an example, if you have a Microsoft Exchange server in your internal LAN, but want to give access to internet users for Outlook Web Access (OWA), you could place your server in the DMZ (NOT RECOMMENDED), or open ports in the firewall to your internal network.
can be combined with proxy technology to (as noted by others) dramatically improve security and performance.
With a reverse proxy, you would put the reverse proxy in your DMZ, and all OWA requests are directed to the reverse proxy.
It's "reverse", because a traditional ("outbound") proxy receives requests from a small set of clients on an internal network and forwards them to the Internet.
Standard network usage of "proxy" is for an intermediate which protects the identity/location/etc.
Other technology (such as load balancing, packet filtering, caching, etc.)
This way your servers and data are protected, while still allowing secure access.
A "transparent proxy" does not protect either side.
Two common ones are Microsoft ISA server, and Apache with mod_proxy.
A reverse proxy presents a single interface for multiples servers and distributes requests between those servers.