This is something that is not possible in a normal power outage without a UPS.
And in this case I think the problem is the same on the clients.
Do you want your server rebooting because the lights flicker?
This allows the UPS to notify the OS when the battery is about be empty and the OS can begin  gracefull system shutdown.
If you think the $100-300 isn't worth it for the server and $50 isn't worth it for the PC, that's your prerogative.
UPSs are not very expensive in the grand scheme of IT costs and should be used in ANY place that is subject to even occasional outages.
Why is an UPS needed for a server but not for clients?
Your assumptions about how a computer handles a loss of power are not realistic.
If a power outage happens, shouldn't the filesystem handle that, so no files are corrupted?
But most people understand TIME is MONEY and any disruption in work flow will cost you money.
You are correct that a UPS only delays the power outage.
Some servers can take 10-15 minutes to start up and then have to go through a disk check when they aren't protected.
Most of the time there might not be any harm, but there is no need to gamble.
Reads and writes take place very quickly but if it loses power at the wrong moment, you lose the information.
However when a power loss occurs the UPS communicates to the OS through a USB cable (most common nowadays).
RAID cache batteries not working properly is a concrete example, but journaling filesystems and transactional integrity simply aren't guaranteed when the power is pulled.
And finally, if an UPS is used, doesn't the server applications need to have support for it?
It's a wonderful thing to THINK the OS should handle an outage - and it SHOULD.
Everyone seems to use UPS for servers but not for client computers.
And when thinking about database transactions, I think that the transaction logic in the database management system should handle it, that's what transactions are for.
In example, if I use Windows Small Business Server on a small network for Active Directory and storing the users home directory for backup is it still useful with an UPS, why?
I wounder how important it is to have an UPS for a server.
The power company will not call you and tell you that a tree is going to fall in 10 minutes and kill your power.
One problem on a production server and you will rue the day that you decieded you did not need a UPS.
Or is it only the operating system that needs the UPS?
All systems in our environment are protected by a UPS - from every server to each desktop.
Plus, any UPS worth a damn also does line conditioning to protect the hardware from current and voltage variations, extending the lifetime of your hardware.
I do understand that it can be useful on servers when changing the server configuration, but that is done during a very limited time and it sounds like it's more worth to do good backups before the configuration.
Users accessing the server via laptop and the internet won't necessarily experience a problem, but you could end up WASTING your employee's time or worse - if an employee is in the middle of a proposal and hasn't saved the file, you could lose business.