Also I would highly suggest you get a label maker for labeling everything: Network cables, equipment, drawers containing cables, patch panels, cable runs, keys, and most importantly, the servers with their names right next to the power and network cables in the back (yes I have stupidly pulled the power on the wrong box when it was unlabeled).
Trust me on this one, you need somewhere to store all the equipment you arent using.
-Whiteboard, definitely smart to put your ideas into a visual interpretation for others to grasp.
I would say a 42" or greater flatscreen on the wall, with a PC hookup.
They're expendable and can always be downgraded to a Temp if need be.
The storage room also keeps away pesky people that ask for things.
Secure workspace - so nothing gets stolen and people cant come up to us asking for support (they need a ticket from the helpdesk)
-1 to 2 flatscreen TVs, definitely good for monitoring software such as WildMetrix or a network management activity tracker.
Do the wii whiteboard Mod so you can whiteboard directly to digital capture.
We had a BAD time trying to organize all the boxes of equipment that we didn't have storage for, but when we got our storage room (about 15 sqft is ours), we made it a day long project to move and sort all the equipment.
A large table or desk where we can setup and or config systems and servers if needed.
Old technology whiteboard was great because you can get a big picture on the wall that you can draw all over.
-A big network drive, An external wireless network (for testing external users), and a door that LOCKS.
If you don't have adequate sq ft, you won't be able to put in those storage shelves, and/or you will have to store all the various parts you  are sure to accumulate in random and hard to find/remember locations.
I will also just say this: adequate square footage.
They can be forced to do the crap jobs while the REAL employees get REAL work done.
Don't let them cram you into some back office with no windows and barely enough room to walk around your desk.
i need to provide a list of workspace requirements to the IT director for my network operations team.
-Plenty of room to grow, our department soon has to move completely to another area in the building because we expanded really quickly.
Something that can be broadcasted that most of the department will be looking at, or that is a must need basis of checking out.
A small closet won't do but a small room should suffice.
Some equipment is on hold and if they see it sitting there they will ask for it.
We know have 3 more programmers and 2 more techs then we originally had and we plan on hiring more but do not have space.
You can just state that you do not have the equipment they need at the moment.
-Storage area, DEFINITELY a good idea for incoming computers that have yet to be installed.
New technology whiteboarding is great because now you can diagram on the board, and quickly save it for later use, instantly popping up an entire whiteboard drawing exactly when you need it.
Quite area - so that we can work and not be disturbed by the loud project managers who play soccer in the office sometimes.