It's quite easy to get them up on a modern network and tar/transfer the data via NFS...here's a picture of mine w/ my NAS/RAID mounted: http://hzsystems.com/scrap/nextnfsmount.jpg
I have three NeXTStations color, and I would expect two of them to be fully operational, although I did not check that for many years.
But I suspect that it's not quite that simple, and further, it's not obvious what type of cable or adapter I would need and where to acquire one.
If you have trouble, I'd be willing to help or even dump the drives for you.
If I successfully do extract the data, I'll ping John and see if it might be ok to release the disk images to the public.
You should indeed be able to plug them into any SCSI-1 or SCSI-2 device chain and then wipe them from there.
I have an external drive that I plug disks into, and dump the image using dd, cpio and tar, then FTP the images to my archive box.
id has open-sourced much of their code, so there might not be anything useful here, but the geek in me would hate to lose it if there is.
I'd like to donate the machines somewhere they can do some good, but John Carmack had me promise more than a decade ago that I'd wipe the drives if I ever passed them along, and I'd hate to lose any priceless data that's on them.
However, if the machines boot, then what I'd do is to export a shared folder over NFS from a machine with enough space to hold the contents of the drives, then tar the complete contents of the drives to the shared folder, and then run dd to wipe them.
As noted above, the easiest thing to do is dump them using an existing NeXT box.
Please let me  know how I can be of help - I am in AZ and CA.
These are all the old NeXT Cubes and NeXTStations (monochrome and color) that were used by id Software to create DOOM and Quake.
I do the same thing for MO/OD images (I have working drives).
If you have a dual drive 50 pin cable, you can get by without the external drive.
In theory, I realize SCSI is backwards compatible, and so I may just be able to plug it into an appropriate cable & modern SCSI card...
You might want to install gnu tar first, assuming that Carmack left you with gcc on the box, because the version of tar installed with NeXTStep has trouble with pathnames longer than either 255 or 1024 characters - I forget which.
In some ways this is better because dd on the NeXT doesn't dump the entire disk.
The easiest solution is to read the drives on the original NeXT equipment.
Alternatively, if you can find an older pci adaptec 50 pin card, and plug it into a Linux box, you'll be able to dd the image in Linux, and later mount the disk using a loop back on Linux.
I have a number of internal 8-bit SCSI-1 drives that I'd like to archive for historical purposes.