How do you usually initially identify someone who could work with some tool/methodology/whatever?
Another improvement that was aimed - was product delivery itself, starting from designing software and up to deployment and operating live systems.
I have no exact answer, why this happened, probably because majority of market players missed the key point of DevOps ideas, and understood only those which could be measured easily.
That is how market works overall - you make offering and advertise what demanding person is looking for, so he prefers you as a supplier, not the other guy.
First one is a nature of DevOps methodology itself.
And somewhere here we got that focus shifted from whole methodology to technical side of it.
This involves a lot of non-technical aspects, like shared responsibility, better communication, knowledge sharing.
And higher management usually looking for kind of measurable results, rather then ephemeral ones.
It is way harder to make same kind of measurement for collaboration between team members, communication improvements, whatever.
Some magical potion, which simply could solve issues they have.
So you are absolutely right – DevOps should be done by everyone in a team, just because it is about team itself, not some person who makes changes, and everyone and everything else remain old-fashioned.
I bet - the answer is - by looking for appropriate badge in their CV:)
Popularity of the methodology arisen - as it was intended to solve problems that majority of industry players had more or less.
And obviously businesses were looking for someone who could implement “DevOps” for them.
There are two strongly connected but still a bit controversial things in the industry that makes this kind of question being asked all the time since 2010.
People realized, that being badged as DevOps engineer, not simply being a sysadmin or developer – makes them more unique and valuable on the market by that time.
So DevOps as methodology just put all this bits to one plate.
So some people started to see non-existent “silver bullet” here.
There was nothing new, actually, as all those things you see in majority of “DevOps job openings” like CI/CD, configuration management, log management, monitoring, whatever – were existing for decades, before even term DevOps was used for the first time.
It was born all around idea of better collaboration between different parties of software delivery process.