The primary relay can then relay incoming mails privately to your T1-hosted mail server.
If you have a small domain you don't mind hosting with AT&T, do it.
You could consider an alternative, low-cost solution to bypass your current problem, by using an external server from a hosting company which allows you to set the PTR record, for example, linode or slicehost (a RackSpace company.)
Lastly, you then have to know how to set your specific server up to use it.
I am not sure if that one allows business class service, but you get the idea.
Similarly, for outgoing email, you can avoid sending mail directly from the T1-hosted mail server and instead configure this to use the external server as a smarthost.
If AT&T will not allow you a PTR record, your only alternative is to use a smarthost to relay your mail.
It's an ugly policy, but I will often times either host a minor domain attached to the company with AT&T or delegate the primary DNS domain to them.
You'll then need to consider different issues, for example, which email addresses will be accepted by the external server, spam filtering, etc, although how that is achieved is dependent on your choice of mail server software.
In Exchange 207/2010, you do it under Organization Configuration>Hut Transport>Send Connectors.
Here is one from DYDNS.org for just $20/year: http://www.dyndns.com/services/sendlabs/outbound.html.
But that's a different question for stack exchange.
The external server should then be configured as the primary mail relay for your domain whilst your existing T1-hosted mail server should be removed as a mail relay from your DNS.
On the network tab, you select "Route mail through the following smart hosts", and enter the information appropriately.
Usually ISP's have a mail server to relay through, most requiring authentication although sometimes they rely simply on the fact that if you are on their subnet, you can relay.
If they do not, you will need to purchase a service that will let you do relaying.