Can anyone recommend an email server that we can use that is possibly administered by the command line in Ubuntu?
In that case, the servers behind the curtains are not so important as long as you can talk to them using IMAP and SMTP.
Ubuntu have integrated / packaged together Dovecot and Postfix in a pretty simple way, I'd suggest you start there.
If you need to configure the mail server (sendmail, dovecot, postfix...) from your webmail application, you will typically need to modify some configuration files and restart the service.
We don't want a email server that is too tightly integrated with it's own UI, as we might even want to add administrative features for the server in the webmail application.
We'll most probably host on Ubuntu Server edition with Apache, but obviously, writing the server itself would be reinventing the wheel, which we want to avoid at all costs.
Their web front end is written in PHP (Zend Framework).
A big advantage to this approach is that your server administrators can use standard tools and approaches to load-balancing and scaling.
However, if you want to be able to modify the mail server by connecting to the mail server and issuing some commands, you can consider using Citadel which has a telnet service.
(I think it is Exim and Courier IMAP, but you have to check it.)
We have to develop a web mail client for one of our clients, and we're looking for an email server we can utilize that would possibly be able to interface with PHP.
I recommend Postfix for mail delivery (MTA) and Dovecot for IMAP and POP.
Both use the Maildir format, are high-performing and easy to work with.
You could build the server with the same MTA software as they do.
They have either a web-mail only and a full e-mail server solution.
Are we talking about an MTA (SMTP server) or an IMAP/POP server?
You can issue command sequences through the telnet service to reconfigure the entire mail server on-the-fly.
solution is probably to write a webmail client that talks IMAP to the mail server.