I'm attempting to determine whether it is possible to have two Active Directory domain controllers running on the same network, within the same subnet, with two separate domains.
I imagine this could be resolved via forwarders -- IE, I could set the IP addresses of both DNS servers in my DHCP config and then tell DomainA to forward requests for *.DomainB to DomainB's DNS, and vice-versa.
The DHCP issue is a valid point, and your potential fix is correct - You can hand out the DNS address of one domain via DHCP, and use a forwarder to resolve the other domain's namespace.
Windows Domains are not the same thing as Internet domains, but I see clients confuse this all the time.
However, the DNS server of DomainA won't be able to answer queries for DomainB, and so on.
However, I want to keep everything segregated for security reasons.
My current concern is in regards to DNS -- as far as I am concerned, this is the main problem.
I run a lab at my home and I've now convinced the person I live with to run a domain controller of their own.
On those DNS servers either set up conditional forwarders for the other domain or create a stub zone for the other domain.
I haven't done this so I'm not 100% positive that it would work, but I can't think of any reason it wouldn't.
You can leave the other domain's client working from DHCP.
I had a fairly long answer all typed up on why you shouldn't go down this road, and then I reread your question and saw the part where you said that this is in your house, so here's my revised answer:
However, I'm looking for simplicity (as much simplicity as you can achieve with a domain controller in your house...)
There will be no trust established between them unless you manually establish one.
However, I don't know if this will this work, or if there is there a better option.
The reason for running two domain controllers on the same network?
I recommend moving DNS services to a Linux system.
We have a few subnets that are used for internal testing and have 5+ different domains running on them, no real issues to speak of.
If this was a business network, I would go ahead and setup VLANS, multiple DHCP servers, etc.
An alternative fix would be to manually configure networking for the clients on one of the domains, and point their DNS manually at the correct domain controller.
And, the less exposed your Windows environment is exposed to the Internet, the happier you'll be.
I could also use a single aggregation which properly forwards the requests to the individual servers.
The two domains will not interfere with each other on the same network.
Since I have one single DHCP server handling the entire network, I want to have one set of DNS server IP addresses handed out to all clients.
I do not want these two domain controllers to be linked in anyway (accounts, etc), except by the switch I have connecting them.