Since you mention file-sharing: If you use applications like BitTorrent or an FTP or web server it is very difficult to tell who is doing what.
Please write back and let us know how you made out!
To open Compute Managment on icon MY Computer right click and chose Manage
To prevent unauthorized access , i guess you need to REMOVE that users permission from the file/folder which they are trying to access.
Anyhow, I believe that fsmgmt will definitely get you moving in the right direction.
Run this on the workstation in question and you will be able to see all shares, sessions, and open files on that particular workstation.
If your using a domain controller , just add that user to the file/folder permissions and explicitly restrict their actions.
the security events will start appearing in your event viewer in the security log.
The best you can do here is to audit access by application name, and look at the access logs that these applications maintain themselves.
go to local security settings within administrative tasks.
The best is , just dont add users to groups which have access to the file/folder.
If you want to view who is accessing them then you will need to set up auditing then select object access sucess.
From this utility you will be able to close any particular session and with folder permissions you should be able to restrict usage.
Regularily check your local administrator group for membership.
If you think someone is access system hidden shares then they'll be doing it using an administrator account.
However, it really depends on the privileges of the connecting user in question as to whether or not you can keep them out in this fashion.
You can go to "Computer Managment" and under to system tools you have Shared Folder, Tere You can see some basic information.
The auditing/access control tools of the OS will not be able to tell what is going on; for them it looks as if the user who is running the file sharing client application is accessing those files, even though the "real" user is someone else (and someone unknown to your local network domain).