Microsoft has lots of documentation about backing up and recovering Active Directory, which you should read and understand if you are responsible for maintaining AD in your organization.
AD provides Organizational Units to segment your authorities and permissions.
If you'd like to see the tool in action, come by one of our demonstrations or contact us at http://www.stealthbits.com/contact-us-company.
Don't let a single user control your whole directory.
Native protections only get you so far - there's always the possibility of that "oops" moment when you make a mistake (delete a critical OU, remove the CEO's user account, or something simple like add the wrong guy to the domain admins group) and think maybe there's a better way to protect yourself.
You're not alone wondering if there's a better way to protect critical objects in AD.
You could use a tool like ldifde(doc) or csvde(doc) to dump AD objects, but that really won't be adequate to recover from a major failure or deletion.
Active Directory is backed up whenever you do a system state backup of the domain controller.
Backups are a must-have, but in many cases a restore of your entire directory isn't an answer.
In those cases, you need to have a reliable backup of your Active Directory environment and you may need to perform an operation called an Authoritative Restore.
The security that StealthINTERCEPT provides exists outside of AD native permissions, meaning that even the users with the highest level of priviledge within your organization can still rely on our tool to prevent them from doing truly destructive things.
Besides that, you should never give administrative access to your whole domain/forest to people who are in the habit of doing anything by accident.
Locking htem down means preventing your admins (and yourself, if desired) from making certain critical mistakes by controlling when and if you can delete, move, rename, or otherwise modify objects within AD.
(In fact, I use it in addition to my enterprise backup product.)
Lastly, if you are using the latest and greatest Windows Server 2008 R2 AND you are running a Server 2008 R2 Forest functional level, then you may want to look into the new Active Directory Recycle Bin feature.
But again, this doesn't obviate the need to have a reliable, tested backup process for your AD infrastructure.
The approach with StealthINTERCEPT is to identify key objects within AD and lock them down.
Bottom line, people who accidentally delete things and who don't keep backups of said data aren't the kind of people you should entrust your directory to.
Starting with Server 2008, Microsoft includes Windows Server Backup, which you should use if you don't have another backup product that supports Windows System State recovery.
The company I work for has such a tool - StealthINTERCEPT for AD and GPOs - and a quick google search can probably turn up others.
There are some tools out there that solve this problem without having to resort to a full restore of your AD from some point in the past.
Microsoft provides a Step-by-step guide about using the Recycle Bin in AD:
Running AD without reliable backups is a guaranteed Career Limiting Move.
Sure, you can have a single authority on top of your hierarchy, but make sure it's someone who takes the job seriously and is aware of the importance of the data he is managing.
It's something you can do if desperate, but the mistake is stil out there and you're still spending a lot of time and resources restoring and then re-implementing all of the changes since your last good backup.
Tools that pro-actively prevent critical changes from happening at all, locking down critical objects so that mistakes never happened.
To my understanding, Server 2008 level AD forests provides a Recycle Bin to recover from accidental delete operations.