Don't let your users install unapproved software in the first place
States Opera Unite opens port 8840, so you can block that port in both directions, and you shouldn't have to worry about it.
Networks are not going to have that port open by default whereas if they ran it on 80 it would be an issue.
A firewall should be blocking this service anyway (you should be whitelisting rather than blacklisting so by default it is blocked)
through firewalls and without a web server, it seems to be a security risk for the enterprise.
That is definately a security risk inside any company.
The basic premises of security/firewall administration are:
states "At this point, [you should] be a bit cautious in the files you're sharing — only share amongst people you trust."
Opera Unite is not in and of itself a security risk.
http://news.zdnet.co.uk/internet/0,1000000097,39664228,00.htm
Opera Unite by itself is not a security risk, but just like any P2P (or any program), it may be used by an attacker (if they find bugs, or is incorrectly configured, etc).
Since the hosting computer must be running Opera Unite, attempts to block downloading and running that application could be attempted on the specific computer, but are there more foolproof methods to block the use of this tool, to prevent unauthorized and accidental file sharing?
The file serving is more an issue, especially if they allow you to share something like the root of your hard drive or a folder location with sensitive information.
The web server portion is working with static html so no scripting or language vulnerabilities.
I think that is why Opera is choosing to use 8840.
I'd use wireshark or some other application to detect what ports Unite uses to share files, and then, if i have a firewall, block the outbound port, if i have a protocol filter, block the outbound protocol, and then with group policy, block the outbound application, and port in windows firewall.
Given that Opera Unite allows users to share files (music, photos, etc.)
If you were following these rules Opera Unite would already be blocked in your network and your users would not be able to install it.
What's the best way for a sysadmin to block Opera Unite sharing?