In other words, even if you purposefully avoid building characters that remind people of existing players, you'll find that humans, being adept at finding similarities, will make such connections anyway.
First, as to the question of whether there have been suits like this before, there have been similar lawsuits.
In cases like these the intent turns out to play a role in lawsuits, and it's obvious from this question that your intent is to portray existing people within your game.
I can understand the drive to make stats and names and such similar, but it's not worth it.
You can't just roll the dice and use "Reggie Bush" with a similar likeness because that's what came up for you.
Note: The generation needs to be live and different for each player.
Then at least if they sued you you'd get the satisfaction of asking if they really think that Cretino Ritardo makes people think of them.
You can look up information on the Rogers Test that may be useful, though it's more for copyright and trademark (though personal names can, ostensibly, be part of a trademark).
If your game is not marketable without real-life characters, then you should reconsider whether to pursue it at all.
Another option is to have the names be randomly generated from a list of the first and last names.
While I am not licensed to provide legal advice, I can point out some important information regarding this topic to help you make an informed decision.
In other words, you could change a lot and it might not be enough since your stated desire is to skirt the law while still making sure your customers experience a game constructed around existing people.
Why attribute the creation of names to a human at all?
You'll need to check, but IMO that makes it less dangerous.
If you get a collision (first name, last name, physical attributes, position) then it is provably coincidental and unintended.
Make a great game that stands on it's own without having to stand on the backs of real people in the sport.
Second Note: This may require additional design and testing of the system/stats etc in order to ensure that the different combinations work, whereas a static system may require less testing in this regard.
This is good for your game, but means you may need to work harder to make sure you can prove in court that your process precludes that possibility.
Then if there is a complaint you could theoretically just remove the first or last name from the list and it won't happen again.
The details are slightly different, but I assume it's safe to guess that EA has greater legal and financial resources at their disposal than you do, and they still lost to the tune of US$40 million.
As such, I suggest you abandon the idea of making stats and names that specifically match existing people, and instead create characters from scratch.
Thoroughly document the process you use to generate characters (randomizer with some tweaks by a person experienced in game balance but not familiar with the sport's players, for instance) because inevitably some of the random characters will appear to some to be copies of existing people.
http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/college/2015/11/07/ncaa-college-ea-sports-lawsuit-payouts/75367410/