I've been suffering from this "Windows failed to start" loop with 0xc0000225 for 3 days now and I still can't fix it.
Reboot back into the recovery media, and from the command line, type
For this you will need some form of recovery media, which means you'll need to use another Windows 7 PC to create it.
The application or operating system could not be uploaded because a required file is missing or contains errors...
Search for the item that has CD-ROM in the Type column and make note of the value in the LTR column - this is the drive letter.
Simply type the drive letter like so, and hit enter:
Since I do not have a the installation discs, I made a USB with a Windows_7_Recovery_Disc  iso (as shown here http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/31541-windows-7-usb-dvd-download-tool.html) but it also doesn't work.
I try to perform an 'Automated Repair' on my computer and I get in red text "The selected partition is corrupted and could not be accessed or repaired.
However, I have tried EasyRE via both CD and USB but both result in the same problem.
Follow the instructions at SevenForums to do that.
I get a blue screen that says "RECOVERY You pc needs to be repaired.
If you don't: STOP, go and get a Windows Installation Disk and try again.
Reboot back into the recovery disk, and select command prompt.
If that still hasn't fixed the issue, you'll have to restore the MBR.
You'll need to use the recovery tools on your installation media.
Boot into the recovery media, and select Command Prompt.
If you don't have any installation media, contact your system administrator or PC manufacturer."
The major problem is that I don't have any sort of installation disc.
Once you see Bootcode was successfully updated on all targeted volumes, type exit and then reboot your computer.
If the above didn't fix the error, you may have to set your Windows partition to Active.
You'll then have to determine which partition should be your active partition, and then set it to active:
Please note you follow these instructions at your own risk, and I assume you have a basic knowledge of Command Prompt.
Now we're going to have to determine the drive letter your recovery disk is on: