With the Forinet you can use either the Policy-Based or Route-Based VPN to enable communication between the spokes.
To allow either spoke to initiate communication, you must create a policy for each direction.
Define names for the addresses or address ranges of the private networks behind each spoke.
This procedure describes a security policy for communication from Spoke 1 to Spoke 2.
For a Policy-Based hub-and-spoke VPN, you define a concentrator to enable communication between the spokes.
I have a few remote offices running Cisco 800 Routers and a HQ that is running a Fortigate 80D and an Azure Cloud enviroment that has a VPN Tunnel to the Fortigate.
At the hub, go to VPN > IPsec > Concentrator and select Create New.
Considering you have the IPSec tunnels up and running, that's half the battle, the other half is getting your Fortinet HQ to act as an Internet transport "between" hubs.
For a Route-Based hub-and-spoke VPN allowing communication between ONLY two spokes.
In the Concentrator Name field, type a name to identify the concentrator.
For more information, see “Defining policy addresses” on page 59.
"Incoming Interface" Select the IPsec interface that connects to Spoke 1.
Leave the Policy Type as Firewall and leave the Policy Subtype as Address.
From the Available Tunnels list, select a VPN tunnel and then select the right-pointing arrow.
"Source Address" Select the address of the private network behind Spoke 1.
I'm new to newotking so have been strugling with this for a few days now.
The number of policies required increases rapidly as the number of spokes increases.
Repeat Step 3 until all of the tunnels associated with the spokes are included in the concentrator.
Now, I have setup IPSec VPN's between all the remote offices and the Fortigate at HQ but I'm having difficulty routing the traffic from the remote sites throught to the Azure enviroment.
To enable communication between two spokes, you need to define an ACCEPT security policy for them.
• Create a security policy for each pair of spokes that are allowed to communicate with each other.
Go to Policy & Objects > Policy > IPv4 and select Create New.
"Outgoing Interface" Select the IPsec interface that connects to Spoke 2.
"Destination Address" Select the address of the private network behind Spoke 2.