I suspect that the "It works" page is being served from /var/www/htdocs and is specified in the /etc/apache/sites-enabled/000-default file.
However, I do not yet have a domain pointing at my server, so I'm not sure what I should put for the ServerName parameter.
I have tried the IP address, but when I do that, restarting Apache gives
I sort of had a similar problem with my rails, except that in this case, I didn't need a domain name.
First, can you just browse to your server hostname, ie:  http://efate/ ?
What I did was to setup my vhost contain on a different port all together:
Finally, you can setup a domain in your local hosts file, and point it to your server's IP, and use that domain to hit the server.
Once you've edited this config file you might be able to access it just by using the machine name.
The closest I have got to something sensible is with
I am trying to serve a Rails application using Passenger and Apache on a Ubuntu server.
On the server end I configure the server correctly, and then locally I use the 'ghost' rubygem to modify my hosts (well the OS X equivalent), so I can test all is correct before flipping over DNS
I find myself in this situation before doing a server migration.
But now pointing my browser at the server's IP address just gives a page saying "It works!"
The Passenger installation instructions say I should add the following to my Apache configuration file - I assume this is /etc/apache2/httpd.conf.
- presumably this is a default page, but I'm not sure where this is being served from.
and pointing the browser at the IP address gives a 500 Internal Server Error.
The versions of Ubuntu I've been using have the virtual server config files in /etc/apache/sites-enabled.
Alternatively, you can use apache's default host settings.
I might be wrong in thinking that the reason I have been unable to get this to work is related to not having a domain name.
This is the first time I have used Apache directly - any help would be most gratefully received!