I am not very clear with how the non-authoritative answer is given.
Authoritative answers only come from servers which directly host the data; non-authoritative answers come from caches/proxies.
Consecutively you'd have to ask name-services.com for an answer.
Why is it showing in the Non-Authoritative Answer?
responses produced by any cache DNS server around the net.
See also DNS - NSLOOKUP what is the meaning of the non-authoritative answer?
The NS response you got tells you which servers are.
they come from the actual domain, and aren't autogenerated by the cache), and they also point to an authoritative server.
They're hosted by the same servers as the rest of the zone.
To get an authoritative answer, you need to send the query to a server that is authoritative for that domain.
If they're queried through a caching/proxy server, that response is non-authoritative because of where it was queried, not because of the record type.
And as I understand it, Non-Authoritative means it's the cache result from some server, probably my ISP.
In nslookup you can use the server command to direct queries to some other server, be it caching or authoritative.
And if they actually are authoritative NS, is it possible to show the non-authoritative server NS?
Domains don't generally have designated non-authoritative servers, because if they had one, then such a server would kinda become authoritative by definition... "Non-authoritative" responses just mean everything else, i.e.
So the NS records are the same that the cache server itself got from some authoritative server (i.e.
In your example, the address of the cache server is 8.8.8.8 (as shown above in the program's output); it is a Google Public DNS server.
I was not sure, when I query NS, Non-Authoritative NS result is the NS of the cache server (ISP) or authoritative server?
Then I checked with a online tool called simpledns, the dnsX.name-services.com ns seems to be the Authoritative Answer NS.
The cache server itself is never part of the results; it gives you unaltered data.
NS records in a domain always point to authoritative servers for their domain.
Even When I use querytype=soa, the Authoritative Answer is blank.
It's telling you that 8.8.8.8, which is the server you asked, isn't authoritative for the domain.