The second is to use the network load balancing (NLB) feature of Windows
This is a script we've used to migrate users from print-server to print-server.
had to click "File | Print" again, that's not too much of a trauma.
tested this in a lab environment and it seemed to work OK for me.
"Warm" standby, without the client-side duplication.
Here's a more sensible option than my last two suggestions.
I've been thinking about this, and contemplating the following:
However, I would think that for a lot of people, if
discount for all but the bigest of networks on the grounds of cost.
Recovery will take less than 15 seconds as the suspended VM is brought online, and could likely be scripted in the event that I finally get Nagios or something similar put in place...
The third approach is to have a second print server as a standby machine.
Microsoft doesn't recommend using this for print serving due
If the worst happened, you could call this script from the existing login-script, and just ask your users to reboot their machines/log out and in.
At worst, users may have to reboot (or otherwise clear their DNS caches),
Initially, this alias points to the main print server.
but it's a whole lot better than having a print server fail with no backup
to the fact that you won't have shared storage, and the print queues will be
I can't think of any big snags, but this gives me a chance to throw the theory out there and see if anyone can find em.
PrintMig utility from Microsoft to back up the main print server and to
http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;281308
Then, point all your machines at a DNS alias name that you create.
Disable strict name cheching, as described in the following article.
2003-based computer may not work with an alias name
Connecting to SMB share on a Windows 2000-based computer or a Windows Server
the worst thing that happened when a print server failed was that some users
This covers me in the event of VM OS failure as well as hardware failure on the VM server (since we don't yet have anything more sophisticated to deal with failover).
Total and utter overkill, but this is best-practices solution to your question!
You would of course need to have the backup print-server up and running first, and you'll need to ensure all the print queues are ready on the new server with the same print queue names.