If possible, use cat6 Ethernet cable and setup the connection for Gigabit speed.
Use your imagination as to where you can find such a file, but keep in mind that certain multimedia formats, such as 3d video, can produce very large files easily.
It is not important to be able to share files between the original systems, for obvious reasons.
Store this file in the shared folder of the third system, the one connected via cable.
You can use neither a folder with many small files, nor a big archive file (like *.zip or *.rar).
For the actual test, just drag and drop the file so that it is transferred first via cable and eventually via WiFi to the original systems.
This metric is THROUGHPUT, the actual amount of data you get to move in a given amount of time, or vice-versa, the amount of time it takes to move a given amount of data from point A to point B.
For starters, you will need a third system, perhaps a borrowed laptop, that you will connect via CABLE directly to the modem/router/switch/refrigerator that forms the "core" of your LAN.
Note the amount of time it takes for the respective transfers to occur.
Is it safe to assume that the wifi adapter on the new system is simply subpar, or could there be other causes?
The number of bars is a relative measure that is only meaningful when compared to the bar count on that very same hardware in that very same WiFi band.
In my honest opinion, what should matter to you is not a number of "bars" but a tangible metric, showing a difference in performance, or lack thereof.
One is an ancient system that (barely) runs win7 and the other is a brand new system with win8.
Of course both your core device and the third system need to support Gigabit speed for that.
The old system never gets below 3 bars wifi whereas the new system never gets above 2.
What you will definitely find out is a much more important metric.
There's no standard across machines for what 2 bars or 3 bars means.
This method is not by any means scientific, not by a long shot.
This is what you should be looking for IMHO, because this is more important than "reception" in your current use case scenario.
After you are done with the networking part, set up file sharing between the new system and each of the two original ones.
You will not by any means find out if one device suffers from poor reception, compared to the other.
Finally you need to obtain some kind of very large file.
Do this first for one, THEN for the second, not at the same time.