I need to delete all emails from a specific source.
If you find these tools handy, and wish to keep them for future use, then:
My approach to tasks like this has been to split the mbox into individual messages, use standard UNIX tools (grep, rm) to process the messages, and then re-assemble the mailbox.
Split your mbox into multiple files in the current directory:
That command reads your mailbox, and creates files msg-#####.txt in the current directory.
If there are multiple regexps you want to use to find the messages to delete, you can go back and grep again with a different regexp and spot-check those hits, etc.
It is okay to use multiple regexp passes, but you must be sure that each regexp does not have any false positives.
Once you've successfully deleted all the offending messages, backup your mailbox, write the remaining msg*.txt files to your mailbox, and re-start the mailserver:
Is there a faster way or a way integrated into the program that will do it automatically?
I will also assume that you're using bash for your shell, and that you have root access to the box, or at least sufficient sudo privileges to start/stop the sendmail instance on your machine, and to write directly to your mailbox /var/mail/$USER.
If the message files identified by grep are indeed messages you want to delete, then:
I can list all of the emails with the f source@emailaddress.com but I'm having to dump it to something like awk and back into mail... or copy all of the email header numbers individually.
Using grep, identify the msg-*.txt files you want to delete, and examine a few of them to ensure that you are certain your regexp correctly targets only the messages you want to delete.
Naturally, this needs to be done with the sendmail process stopped, so that no new mail arrives while you're working.
Install the procmail package and read the formail man page.
The procmail package includes a handy tool called formail which allows the user to iterate over individual messages of a traditional mbox-style mailbox.
You don't say which BSD you're on, but I'll assume FreeBSD.
It does not write to or delete your /var/mail/$USER mailbox, so no harm done.