I'll try and see if I can find an easy way way to do that, though, since it might not be easy.
I boot up to Windows 7, clicked on START, and right click on Computer and chose "Manage", and then I right clicked on a primary partition which wasn't the partition for C: but just a useless partition instead.
Are you sure you deleted windows partition from running windows?
If this doesn't work, please paste a screen shot of your disk management.
In the MBR (where the main partition information is stored) there is room for only 4 primary partition records maximum (or 3 primary and one extended partition records).
I've found the free Easeus Partition Recovery tool to be great.
I don't think windows is dumb enough to let you do that.
After I right clicked on that useless partition, I chose "Delete" and confirmed I want to delete.
Then after 30 seconds, Windows 7 blue screen, and I cannot boot up Windows 7 any more.
The repair tool showed the Windows 7 partition is 0 MB.
Use it from Vista - let it scan the disk and find lost partitions.
It is possible that if you delete one partition you loose more than one partition - the extended partition can hold many logical partitions which are chained one after the other.
If I boot up to Vista instead, and chose Disk Manager, it showed the Windows 7 partition now as "Free Space".
So if you loose one partition the chain of partitions is broken!
No matter what tool you're using, though: Make sure it's detected the size of the partition correctly before recovering it!
If not, it might overwrite the data accidentally, which makes it a lot harder to recover the partition.
I would recommend you first try to somehow back up the first 5 gigabytes or so of the free space, before continuing (or at least, the first few megabytes)...
For partition recovery there are free tools - for example Mini Tool Partition Recovery is user friendly and I have recovered myself a deleted partition very easy.
The suggestion on screen is that I boot up Windows 7 from the DVD-ROM, chose Repair, but it didn't repair it.