Getting the PDUs that allow us to monitor our usage and having it report via SNMP lets us know what racks we can add equipment too or if we need to shuffle equipment around.
The basic model is just a high grade power bar that you mount in your rack.
Even some of the bigger rackmount APCs don't support this.
One of my clients has servers hosted in a 3rd party data center, the power is battery backed, but we never knew how much current our servers were drawing, on more than one occasion we tripped breakers and lost a rack.
APC's PDUs go from fancy power bar to fully managed power bar...
The highest models allow you to turn on and off specific power ports in case you need to reboot a machine, save power, or mess with the sales guys.
The UPS should have enough outlets for your needs right now and less stuff = less problems.
and nothing else, unless you are sure it is supported by the UPS manufacturer.
A common setup is to have all the equipment plugged into one or more UPS devices on a shelf at the bottom, and then have all the UPS devices plugged into a rack mounted strip, and then the strip going to the wall.
Pay attention to the "Input Connections" line on the Technical Specifications pages of APC UPSes.
The only sure rule is always use a UPS between your equipment and anything else (power strip or outlet).
You can get surge protected rackmount power strips for 19" racks, and those are nice, simply for routing the power cables (you only have one leaving the rack, the rest can be tied in or managed on the rack in a neat manner).
If there aren't enough plugs on the UPS, you need a different UPS.
The other question you have to ask yourself is what kind of power can you get in your office.
Since you are looking at having just one rack and you will have your own UPS I don't see any reason for you to get the high end PDUs, all this information is available on the UPS.
However, if you do need additional sockets a low end APC PDU is, IMO, much better than a power bar.
I don't know if anyone has mentioned it, but you shouldn't plug power strips or PDUs into the smaller APC units.
Based on the small amount of equipment you're installing, having 110v (over 208v) power is probably fine, but if you want any kind of decent UPS battery life, you're going to need to install a special outlet (most likely L5-30).
The higher end ones have web pages where you can monitor power usage and have it send SNMP data for power usage reporting.
We normally go with option 2 and purchase PDUs where you can control the outlets individually (called switched/smart/intelligent PDUs).
A "PDU" is a Power Distribution Unit, which tends to indicate a fuse panel in rack environments (at least in the 100+ data centers and COs I've worked in).
If you don't plan on needing to remotely reboot the power on servers, I would say go with option 1 until you run out of power outlets, then switch to option 3.
That means if a server locks up, you can log in to the PDU and power cycle it remotely.