I don't know the format of these files, but you may be able to get file lists or at least size details to compare, as a starting point.
Not what you want to hear but I have the luxury of full 1:1 ratio reference environments for all my platforms for just such tests.
I would restore the files to a test location and use a tool like Winmerge:
If you want to have checksums calculated for every file, just pass the output through md5.
You might look at the "Write checksums to media" option to save checksums after each backup, and consider saving the job logs to compare from run to run.
You can use mount.cifs to mount Windows shared folders on a Linux host, or you could just run Cygwin right on the file server.
I would also recommending backing up your valuable data three different ways, especially if you aren't verifying backups every day.
Backup Exec (in recent versions) should verify after backup by default.
When something goes wrong you'll appreciate the variety of options.
First of all, enable the the 'verify' option in your chosen backup app and then stick to complete backups where-ever possible.
http://www.computerperformance.co.uk/w2k3/utilities/windiff.htm
Maybe something to add to the weekend work-load of your servers?
http://lifehacker.com/290657/compare-and-merge-files-and-folders-with-winmerge
There are a variety of tools available on Linux which are well-suited to this task.
This listing can be saved along with the backup for future use.
After restoring the backup, build another file list using the same command, then use diff to find differences between them.
I would suggest Backup Exec to tape, an offsite rsnapshot file backup, and disk based backup:
This command only shows filenames because folders don't need hashes.
You can use additional apps to perform all the actions you want, but they will take as long as the backup does.
Before starting the backup, use the find command to recursively iterate from a specified directory and write the results to a file.
Double check it though, should be a checkbox in the options.