For instance, make a defender unit that does 2x damage on a counter-attack, or make an offensive unit that does 1/2x damage on a counter-attack.
Do you build and use units that have strong melee attacks but die more easily because they're in melee or do you use units with weaker ranged attacks that live longer because they can stay out of melee?
This reduces the first-turn advantage to mostly being about picking the battlefield positioning, which is more strategically interesting in a tactical game.
In short, if you accept the previous three points, using melee-counterattack to achieve them is just probably far easier overall than using something else.
Melee counter-attack reduces the benefit of taking the first turn.
Continued from above, melee-counterattack means that it matters less which player attacks first, as both players' units will get a chance to attack no matter the outcome.
Melee counter-attack is widely understood and easy to incorporate into a game's design.
It makes sense that the unit getting attacked gets a swing in.
An example again would be HoMM: a single unit on the battlefield is actually a stack of creatures rather than a single creature.
The number one reason is to make the game fun and challenging.
Melee counter-attack is an easy way to make ranged attacks valuable.
It requires little additional/special artwork or animations.
In a game like HoMM, having a large stack of powerful attackers you'll be able to kill many other stacks in the game with a single attack.
Basically, assuming you want the additional strategic impact provided by melee-counterattack in the first place, it's just easier to use melee-counterattack than to come up with a different solution.
Melee-counterattack provides some counter-balance to unit counts.
It's easy to teach to new players which makes the game more appealing to a wider playerbase.
What's the rationale behind giving the attacked unit an extra attack, which doesn't cost it its turn?
Melee counter-attack reduces otherwise over-whelming attacker advantage.
Imagine you have a sword and someone shoots an arrow at you; they're too far away for you to hit them with the sword.
This is rather subjective as its quite arguable whether you'd want to encourage the player to have many smaller stacks or fewer larger stacks.
This is a two-parter that is predicated on accepting the prior three points.
The counter-attack evens out the economy of attack actions with the smaller stacks; 5 small stacks ganging up on a larger stack do not get 5x as many attacks, possibly nulling out the supposed numeric superiority of the larger stack.
It's hard to imagine getting a melee hit in on an enemy and them not getting involved at all, because you have to very close to them to hit with with something like an axe.
The first attacker will no longer be able to eliminate the opponent's strongest attacker in the first turn without consequences (well, except for ranged attackers, but that plays back into the first point).
What I mean by "composable" is that since counter-attack is such a simple rule, there are many ways to combine it with other rules to get a combinatoric growth in strategic depth without requiring much extra work.
Without counter-attack, it becomes much easier for multiple small stacks to overwhelm a single large stack, even though the large stack possibly represents more overall individual creatures.
And why are ranged attacks excluded from retaliation?
It's a basic question of a certain type of "realism".
Ranged attackers can't get hit by the melee units they attack because it makes sense.
You'll frequently find this element in simpler designs: you can combine simple rules far more effectively than you can combine complex rules, and the result is often equally simple and easy to understand.
Melee counter-attack means that even defenders that you roll over still whittle away at your offensive stack, reducing its offensive power over time (unless you expend resources replenishing the stack).
I've seen quite a lot of turn-based games in which melee attacks on another unit cause the attacked units to also damage the attacking unit, while ranged attacks do not suffer from this "retaliation" mechanic.
Ranged attackers are typically used as big-damage/wimp: they stay far so that they don't get attacked.
Some games, like Duelyst, let ranged attackers get a counter-attack in when being attacked by ranged attackers.
Examples include the Heroes of Might and Magic series, the Civilization series, the new King's Bounty series, and more.