Typically 90%+ of the activity should be related to user apps.
That blog post is a great place to start as a guide to finding a root cause when you know something is seriously sick.
For example, Windows Explorer has the ability to support third party namespace\shell extensions (e.g.
The various Sysinternals tools like Process Explorer and Process Monitor can be used to drill into quite a bit more detail to find problem areas but using them effectively takes time and a bit of expertise.
Tracking down more esoteric problems can be quite hard.
Installable File System Filter drivers are used to provide additional features (and occasionally restrictions e.g.
A lot of overall performance issues can be caused by network problems (e.g.
All of these can cause significant problems in terms of user interface performance (when they misbehave) because they can be triggered by many actions that appear to be relatively benign (e.g.
Netstat -e will show you whether there are any discards\errors both of which are bad at any level, if non-unicast packets exceed unicast packets by any significant margin then that is probably a problem.
On W2K8 & Vista the XPerf tools can be used to take detailed traces of the entire system behaviour while investigating issues.
a mandatory AV\Security service might appear to have very high numbers) and there may not be (e.g.
If something you don't recognize is very high or top of one of the lists then some more investigation is called for, there may be a good reason (e.g.
More complicated problems can be very hard to diagnose and require some smarts.
Leave it running over a typical working session and take a look at what processes have the highest values.
extensions that provide better metadata on media files, source-control repositories and so on).
DRM) and there are quite a few other places where 3rd party extensions to the user interface can be inserted by vendors.
Troubleshooting network issues could fill a book but checking ping times to your key servers is a good start - on a LAN everything should be <1ms, your WAN latencies will be longer but they should be consistent and if any of them are >100ms then there should be a very good reason why.
Open Task Manager, go to Processes, on the view menu click "Select Columns" and enable tracking for "CPU Time", "Peak Working Set", IO Reads, IO Writes and Image Path (dunno if the latter is available in XP).
If the root causes are simple (Memory footprint, high CPU load, high IO) then the stats available from Task Manager can help indicate if there are some misbehaving services or applications.
poor name resolution, persistent connections to shares that have very large numbers of files, simple dodgy networks throwing lots of errors etc).
Mark Russinovich has a good article about tracing down just such a misbehaving component on his blog here a few years back.