But if you have dual power supplies into separate PDUs, which is sensible, you may not get the whole picture.
I had enterprise storage arrays that warranted 2-3 dedicated 20A circuits each; if your array has multiple controllers and dozens of drives, it's different than, say, a 1u 4-drive storage array.
With this information I can then work out realistic power requirements.
I'll second the power advisors that ewwhite suggested (I use the APC one when building out racks myself), and using a power meter to figure out your actual configured power use, if you have the equipment already (or if you can get eval equipment to test with).
If you're unable/unwilling to do this yourself talk to an electrician about it.
Some of the metered/managed PDUs will report on current draw (pun not intended to be funny) so you can figure it out without unplugging/rebooting your server.
The way I tackle this problem is to ignore the nameplate information and actually measure the current draw of each piece of equipment.
Also, the storage array and switches may vary widely in power use.
Measurements are taken both at startup and while running, under both normal and heavy loads.
I've used things like Kill-a-watt (which plugs into the wall and your server plugs into it) to evaluate single power supply load, or dual with a split power cable.
There a are a number of ways to do this but the simplest solution for me is to use a power lead which has been modified so that one of the conductors forms an accessible loop of wire outside the cable.
The nameplate draw is going to be maximum configuration worst-case draw.
I use the HP Power Advisor and the APC UPS Selector tool to provide a good estimate of power requirements.
Often the vendor will have recommended practices, and the vendor SE should know how accurate the published specs are and what people are actually doing as far as power distribution.
The APC tool has a great database of common telco/server equipment, and provides a way to build in some headroom for expansion.