IF you're caught and have a big enough profile case, the goverment will go to any lengths to prosecute you.
This goes for both governments and cybercriminals alike.
Just wanted to throw my 5 cents into this subject.
Stop worrying so much about which encryption to use and start setting up logistics that will keep you off the "persons of interest" list.
For the most part a far less comprehensive erase would be fine - Guttmann protects against attacks which are basically theoretical only and if even possible would likely beyond anyone but intelligence agencies and others with that level of skill and resource.
Even break the law and cover it up, just like the case in Silk R@ad where they illegally hacked into the servers and did not disclose how they even did so.
governments) have some of the most talented individuals slaving away at specific targets of interest (ie.
A prime example would be when Apple would not turn over the keys to the government for iMessage.
They found someone who was determined enough to crack it.
It takes forever, and if you're trying to keep stuff away from your spouse or whatnot...you're being paranoid.
Not to beat a dead horse here, but as we've seen in the past few years, solutions are usually found after issues/concerns that arise when it comes to the security sector.
On modern mechanical drives, all data is completely gone after one pass.
Now given that national security is high and electronic information has become the new standard and highly sought after, I can assure you that larger organizations (ie.
A big vault, yes, and with a dinky cage up front, but you wont find 35 methods of keeping you out before you reach it.
So do your best to encrypt, but don't go overboard.
Again, Id focus on staying under the radar and practicing to blend in with everyone else regardless of what community you may belong to.
The Guttmann method if applied properly and thoroughly should have rendered the data on the drive completely unrecoverable.
If someone really wants to retrieve your data and has the resources to fund the endeavor, best believe there will be talented minds coming out of the woodworks to destruct something made by someone with less skills and experience than them.
If you have a 100k car, showing it off, and someone asks you how you made it and your reply is bitcoin - your chances of becoming a target to data deft is significantly higher.
Stay off the map if youre worried about your data being compromised, and also you should weigh your options as to wether the data you're treating better than gold is even worth its weight in gold.
With all of this being said, I think military grade 7-pass is plenty, if not overkill for most users.
I remember one case where a gov organization needed to extract files from a supposedly wiped and destroyed device, and one of the brilliant minds they hired found a way to extract enough data from the RAM somehow.