I would look at external services that these apache processes connect to.
Any other reason that CPU is consumed that doesn't show up on top ?
It seems that those are my normal traffic but for some reason are delayed.
No crons running, and I get the same overload issue every hour like a clock.
My best guess is that something is overloading the system and http queries are delayed.
Every hour, for some minutes, the same every time (26-30) the server is un-accessible by web.
/var/log/messages has NOTHING, apache error logs have nothing.
If it's that tightly scheduled, other than cross referencing all the logs for that period of time, you might consider attaching strace to the httpd PID for a more in depth look or running apache in debug mode in the foreground just before it usually occurs.
The load is increasing a lot and a lot of httpd (apache) processes are opened.
Anyone has any ideas on how to pinpoint the issue ?
I stopped crond and waited for the next cycle, the same happened.
HTTPd has the -X option for that, though performance will obviously suffer so I would try to get as close to the event as possible.
nginx runs on port 80 and httpd on port 8000 and I check both, 8000 has connections only from my ip and port 80 no ip stands out.
I have done a very thorough analysis of the mod_status output, and I found nothing strange (I grouped ips with open connections).
I found the following issue really interesting, I think you will too.
I have also monitored port 80 with netstats grouping ips with open connections.
A lot (900 httpd processes are opened) but I haven't found any malicious ips that do a lot of requests.
Overall it doesn't sound like a problem on the apache server itself.
top gives me nothing out of the ordinary, only the load is very increased, but no process stands out.
Maybe you have a DB backup scheduled hourly at that time and maybe that locks all of the tables.
Only one worker will be started and the server will not detach from the console."
I have a linux server that I use for hosting some websites.
The websites have decent traffic, its a busy box, but I had never had instability issues.