In simple words, is this a kind of real topology of internet.
Networks connected to these routers and reachable through them can be distributed via this IGP as well, but iBGP may be used for that too.
So if an ISP has 100.0.0.0/16 as their IP space (assigned to them by a RIR) and breaks that down internally to various /24's for its customers and services, only the aggregated /16 will be announced to peer ASNs.
Apart from multiple OSPF area's, which is to limit 50 routers per area, is it really the way internet works.
This will be such a tiring job to advertise each and every network information of ISPs.
Typically, autonomous systems (ASNs) use an IGP (which can be OSPF, IS-IS or iBGP) so routers in their network know how to reach eachother.
Next, my context based question is if this is the typical scenario, then how I can ping 11.11.11.11 from R2.
Even with these aggregated routes the number of routes in the global routing table is still quite large: currently about 615K IPv4 routes and 32K IPv6 routes, and it's still increasing.
Typically, only aggregated prefixes of their networks are exchanged.
But, I believe if we don't do so then how can I communicate to internal network of other ISPs.
I have explored re-distribute but I haven't understood much.
I have never worked on the customer premises, but my assumption is that one service provider runs IGP services internally - For example - OSPF or IS-IS.
If so, is it done in the same way in the real network.
Now, when one service provider has to reach another service provider to communicate server on the third service provider, it will pass/transit through another ISP.
I am using CISCO - GNS3 any cisco commands will help.
These other networks know how to reach that network then, and the network can then use the routing information in its IGP to reach the exact destination.
Also, in the real network - if you advertise each and every routing information to other ISPs then the routing table will become so large.
Do I need to advertise each and every network information of ISP-2 to ISP1 and ISP-3 so that they all can communicate?
You can ignore the fact that it can be IS-IS or other igp protocols within AS.