That way, if your connection is too slow, you don't lose any money over it.
I ran the Activity Monitor app on my MacBook Pro while simultaneously streaming Netflix on 4 devices on my home wifi (my MacBook Pro, an iPhone 5, an iPhone 4 and a smart TV upstairs).
Apparently, 1 Mbps should do it…but there's that nasty little disclaimer: actual speeds vary and are not guaranteed.
To my knowledge, the Activity Monitor shows bandwidth used by the wifi network as a whole (which was what I was interested in), not the individual devices.
I even called Comcast on my VOIP phone and the bandwidth usage stayed the same.
I helped produce our streaming video sites, so I was in contact with one of their techs.
Or more to the point: why do I need to PAY for that speed?
Comcast just jacked up my bill, and I'd rather chew my own arm off than give them any more money, so I did this little experiment to see what was the minimum plan I could get without sacrificing performance.
If your connecting is 1Mb, your video is going to be more compressed.
They don't say, but apparently I am also getting their Blast service which gives me "up to" 50 Mbps.
Not uncommon for it to be using 9mb on HD programs over our xbox 360.
Or even more to the point: do I ever actually get that speed?
However if there is anyother machines online it will kick back to less and change the quality of the stream...
At the time, they were using multiple-bitrate WMVs.
For what it's worth, the company I work for was going to do a partnership with Netflix a little over a year ago (so these numbers represent that -- it could have changed since then).
We have a 1.5/10 Mb connection and see neflix eat as much bandwith as it can get.
The high end (at the time) were 3Mb/s WMVs, with the lower side being in the 100's of kilobits per second (maybe ~700kb/s, but I honestly only distinctly remember the high side @ 3Mb/s).
While I couldn't find any hard numbers on Netflix's site, it seems the consensus is that as long as you have a decent DSL connection 1.5 Mbs, you should be able to stream successfully (there might be a decent amount of buffering though).Source
If you have a 3Mb or higher connection, you'll be able to watch everything at the best quality they offer.
The total data rate never got higher than 709 kbps (less than 1 Mbps) and on average it stayed around 200-300 kbps.
Basically, these are containers/streams that are served from Windows media servers that adapt based on your bandwidth.
I'm not a gamer, though I wonder if I was, would I still need that kind of bandwidth?
I would suggest signing up for a free trial with Netflix and trying out the streaming.
All of this is to say that Netflix supports lower bandwidths, but the quality of the video is going to fluctuate accordingly.
So, if you had enough bandwidth, they were 3Mb/s streams, but if you couldn't support that they would throttle down to one of the lower bitrates.
You see, I am using Comcast "High-speed Internet."
So, I can pay every month for 50 Mbps and if (or WHEN) I never get/need/use that speed, I can pay anyway.