Second, whenever a laptop running the service sees a new network, it's reported to the service.
Although @jcrawfordor pretty much nailed it and the OP must have moved past this but just for others who end up here,the following is whats being done.
Furthermore these are private dbs i.e FB and Mozilla.
For browsers that don't support the Geolocation API natively, there are downloadable browser plug-ins or Java applets that provide this kind of feature, almost always by querying your Wi-Fi card for what networks it can see around it.
First, they likely import from public databases like WiGLE.
When multiple computers report a new network, its position can be triangulated based on the position of the known computers.
This allows the service to determine an accurate location without GPS.
The database of WiFi networks is quite extensive and comes from multiple sources.
Providers have an option to disable this mapping via '_nomap'to their wifi name(SSID) if they're concerned of privacy.
So location finding is merely an extension of a lookup based on strength of the signal.
The software takes readings from your wifi adapter, and compares these to a database of known wireless networks and their locations, allowing for the triangulation of your position based on signal strengths.
[Please upvote/accept @jcrawfordor's answer, but I wanted to add some information and the comment box character limit was too small, so I decided put this as an Answer instead.]
Google Latitude uses a proprietary Google service that operates on the exact same principal as the more popular Skyhook Wireless system.
Here's what Safari does when you try to load Skyhook's Loki applet:
Usually Java apps are completely sandboxed and don't require permission to run because they can't violate your privacy or access anything on your system.
You probably forgot that the first time you visited Google Latitude, you gave your browser permission to let Google Latitude access your Mac's Location Services data.
Google,Mozilla and several others have their own Wifi Location databases that get populated .
Here's what Safari does when you first visit Google Latitude:
It is fairly simple to keep a database of all wireless networks because all wireless networks (even those with the same ESSID) have a unique interface MAC address assigned by the manufacturer.
Skyhook's "Loki" technology is a Java applet, but since it needs to access system APIs to query your Wi-Fi card for network scan data, your browser has to ask permission before it will run Loki.