I was thinking of even setting up two, one unplugged as a spare ready to go.
But otherwise, a weekly restart won't really do harm.
I have never used it outside of my CCNA lab, it works great but is now collecting dust.
Plus, if the current switches are unmanaged, it's one less thing to worry about in a tight budget place :)
Honestly, any brand switch for that matter will work with them for awhile.
They seem to be somewhat flakey, unless they are rebooted every few weeks.
You don't really have to worry about upgrading the hardware unless they are really exceeding the capacity of the switch itself.
You can try a firmware upgrade if the current switches are managed.
I see from the Cisco datasheet that the 2950 is a 12, 24, or 48-port 10/100 switch, which can possibly also have two gig ports.
If your 2950 is the one with a couple of gig ports, you could connect the 2 busiest of the 3 servers to those ports.
I have a spare switch I could give them, but I don't want to hand them a ticking timebomb at the same time.
Actually I think I used some of these in a previous job.
My question is, would a Cisco Catalyst 2950 switch be ok to use in production?
My current place of employment is a very small print shop with average home networking equipment.
That could provide a small performance boost over the existing setup, if the client machines are all communicating with the servers.
They currently have a 16 port 10/100 d-link switch, and a netgear gigabit switch that is connected to the servers.
What you have to worry about is the configuration of the network and of the domain (if they're using AD).
The shop has 7 Clients, 3 servers, & 6 IP printers.
Hopefully the 2950 you have is big enough so you can consolidate all the existing equipment on to it instead of running two separate switches.
That switch certainly won't perform any less well than the existing home networking equipment they have set up.
They bosses seem to be ok with an occasional interruption with the current setup, as long as it's only for a few mins.
The Cisco equipment is also managed, so you could potentially do some snmp monitoring and remote configuration if desired.
If their pc using staff grows much higher and starts using a domain, I would probably go the procurve route.
Setting up this switch sounds like a great use of older hardware.
I am thinking of "donating" it to them, but only if it will help things.
For now, let the gear be and make sure it's configured right.