I do not know of a third party that solves this problem currently, and as a result I usually have a customer confirm their IP address.
I know this is an old post, but did anyone try unchecking "Register this connection's address in DNS" under advanced TCP/IP options of the network adapter created by the VPN client?
The best option may be to provide static IP addresses via dhcp to your SYSTEMX so that it always comes back on the same address.
This is a common problem with remote access solutions.
This can also happen in any environment where dynamic DNS updates are permitted, BTW.
Pass through DHCP is supposed to take care of this problem, but it is often not used due to being less reliable than using the built in DHCP of a VPN product.
So when you nslookup based on IP, you're getting one of the PTR records, which may not correspond to the correct computer name.
As has been mentioned, if the DNS server is set to scavenge, eventually the old PTR records will clean up, though this takes time.
Do test it however as some VPN setups aren't smart when requested DHCP leases.
It should stop the other machines from using this IP too.
The DNS entries will get cleaned up but it can take time for these changes to replicate depending on how complicated your topology.
For instance, it could a few weeks in a default Windows Server 2003 DNS configuration (once scavenging is turned on).
What's happening is the VPN solution is registered a new PTR record every time a new connection is granted.
Many of these built in products do not tell appropriate DNS entries to be removed when a client disconnects.
In cases where it didn't, we would ping the IP, verify it, then do an nbtstat -a IP address to see what Windows system was truly responding on that IP.
To help with this some people have added ipconfig /registerdns to the end of their logon scripts that execute upon successful VPN connection, however this still does not remove an old bad entry.
So when you query based on IP, there are multiple PTR records because, as has been pointed out, the old ones haven't been cleaned up.
And like what has already been mentioned, we found that by doing DHCP reservations was the way to go in those cases where it truly mattered to us.
In this scenario it would make sense to set up a reservation to ensure that your IP address for SYSTEMX is reserved for that machine only.