I can be outside of my 192.168.2.x network and navigate through the browser to my home servers.
If you insist on using the VPN, then the final network speed that you get would be limited by VPN and the speed will be at slower of the two speeds (and in practice, the final speed you end up with  will be much slower than either the VPN or the proxy alone).
My Laptop uses the normal internet it's located on at the time to route trafic by default unless the ip is in the VPN subnet or the  program is configured  to use the proxy (which is in  the vpn subnet)
This is pretty much standard and we do it sometimes within larger organizations (for added security).
For a non-professional the easiest but at the same time, a tool that that would give you significant insight into the process would be Fiddler.
The proxy creates a routing table that allows me to connect to my home network.
No root needed , just make sure to set proxy mode on manual when configuring wifi.Premium Adguard comes with default proxy server ,and you can get it free  piratebay>applications>android.
So if the VPN is on it is possible for the proxy traffic to go through the VPN (not the other way round - at least not when you do it on the same machine).
Therefore, you can use a proxy or even another VPN (tunnel within a tunnel) for all the traffic from your computer.
I then use the socks5 proxy in specific programs that i want routed through my home network and through the VPN.
Traffic in my home vpn subnet goes to  my home VPN
No, The VPN is more like a Network Adapter (or a virtual "network card" if you like).
You did not mention the platform that you are on, but here's a list of other tools if you do not like the two tools that I mentioned above.
I actually run two VPNs and a proxy all at the same time.
Traffic in my work VPN subnet goes through work VPN
Individual programs that allow you to change their proxy settings can be routed through my home vpn via the proxy.
However the price you would pay with would be a drop in the speed of the connection, and this gets worse the more VPNs/Proxies you put in the way of the traffic.
As I gave the example earlier, your VPN is like another "Network Card" (LAN Interface) except that its virtual.
So in other words, if are trying to add a proxy for "speed", no, it will not solve the problem since the limitig factor will be the SLOWEST passage-way the traffic encounters in its way to the destination (SO if the VPN has a lower speed, it would not make the fact that you added a proxy to the setup, any faster).
If you really want to dig deep, then Wireshark is one of the tools used by professionals.
The VPN connection will grab all of your network traffic and route it to the exiting VPN server while at the same time, your proxied traffic will travel through your VPN tunnel, exit at the exit server, then connect to the proxy server you have setup.
In the settings of the app you can opt to monitor either https , or vpn traffic using adguard proxy server.So you are getting proxy speed for surffing , while still vpn running and protecting the rest of your apps.