You can do it if you mount ftp resource using curlftpfs:
Or you unpack the archive on your machine and transfer the contents via FTP, which will be considerable slower if you have a large number of small files because of the overhead of FTP.
I don't know how the zip file format is specified concerning just unzipping a part of a zip file; if you need to transfer the whole file nevertheless or only the compressed part corresponding to that file.
Is your goal to unzip it on the external server, or do you want to pull the archive contents to your own computer?
and then hit url eg: http://example.com/extractor.php bingo php will extract that zip for you.
This will in practice stream the file contents directly to the unzip program, so you technically do transfer the whole file, but only in its zipped state (presumably saving traffic) and the contents will appear directly on your local computer without the explicit intermediate step.
http://linux.about.com/od/commands/a/blcmdl1_unzipx.htm
If you just want to get the unzipped contents "directly" to your own computer without first explicitly transferring the files and then unzipping, you could e.g.
FTP stands for "File Transfer Protocol", which was only designed to transfer and partly manage files on the remote end, but not to execute commands.
I don't see any real technical reasons as to why it wouldn't be possible to do this kind of selective transfer (the FTP protocol allows only transferring partial files to enable resuming).
The first case is not solved by FTP, but by SSH or similar techniques as described in other answers.
mount the FTP site as a folder and unzip it as a normal zip file to a location on your local computer.
To unpack an archive you'd have to execute a program like tar, bzip2 or similar, but that's not possible via a FTP connection.
Little bit out of context answer but surely works.
You need another session which allows you to execute commands, like SSH.
It is not possible to unzip files over an FTP connection.
If you are running a Apache + php on that ftp directory then upload your zip file in that folder and create extractor.php: