By switching default connection before opening connection you may be able to switch connection depending by task and keep both open at the same time.
So one TCP (or UDP) connection can go only via one link.
even between two pcs on the same LAN, if one of the two is trying to connect to an IP address by using in the same connection two different NICS (hence two different IPs).
And for normal web browsing to have that traffic use your ISP then I think the answer is maybe.
As ftp and http and other protocols can be used equally for either upload or download, you can't determine this by port number.
For commercial and server hosting internet you can get one IP address which is independent of the ISP and so you can use more internet connections at the same time.
To sum up, in Linux (and only in Linux) you may run a separate network namespace, which is, for instance, connected through a VPN to your work place, so that you access your work resources, and, if you run Firefox, you appear to be based at your work place, while at the same time runnning Google Chrome outside the network namespace, and thus appearing (on Chrome) to be based at home.
This has little to do with ISPs and their services: it occurs
*the address to which you send all packets not destined to your LAN), and these OSes can only handle one routing table: hence a single gateway.
The short answer is: in 95% of the cases it cannot be done, and yours falls within that 95%.
But it is the real way, with a single pc, to route different processes through different interfaces.
This is of course a form of virtualization, albeit a weaker form than, say, a Linux container, not to mention a virtual machine.
But for some company FTP server, it could be doable.
Instead, in order to allott different applications to different interfaces, you need two distinct functionalities: one, the ability two run two routing tables simultaneously, and two, the ability to tie applications to either routing table.
IP 1.2.3.4, but on the cell phone you get IP of your phone network operator, for example 5.6.7.8.
Now processes running inside this separate shell will all be routed according to the routing table of the network namespace, not that of the main pc.
You can manipulate default connection, switching it depending on task you wish to start.
This is true for all home internet access where you are given IP address from your ISP.
The reason why you cannot do this in Windows (any version), *Nix and Android is that any routing table can have just one default gateway (*i.e.
The ability to run two routing tables at the same time (called policy routing or source-based routing) means that packets are differently routed  depending on their IP address.
Keep in mind that some programs (eg, download/upload managers) will open connections per-task, rather than per session, so your mileage may vary.
any download requires some upload flow (This is less true for UDP than for TCP, but never mind that).
The *Nix kernel partially compensates for that through a judicious use of its firewall, pfsense, without however achieving the full result.
However, in order to use different NICs (and thus IPS) depending on the application, you need network namespaces, a Linux kernel feature that allows you to build a separate shell with its own network stack.
If on the other hand what you're in fact asking is if it's possible to favour the 4G connection for a predominantly upload session such as when uploading files with ftp/sftp or http.
First, let me say that it makes little sense to speak of routing separately upload and download, because even intense download tasks require that some packets flow backward to the source, i.e.
If you can find a LISP ISP near you you might be able to buy service from them in addition to your current connections.
Although it is practically impossible to separate upload and download between connections (as described in details in other answers) there is possible manual workaround.
You could manually alter the routing table for example before doing large youtube upload to divert all youtube traffic via the internet with faster upload speed and then change it back.
Only the Linux kernel (light years ahead of the competition) has these capabilities, as of this writing.
Usually it means that program will use connections that was default on time you started it.
This is mentioned also in the other answer - for outgoing TCP packets you must receive acknowledgement packets and these must go via the same interface.
You would have to have an overlay (tunnel) connection that supports different endpoints for upstream and downstream traffic.
But for maybe to work you'd have to be able to classify the session as a mainly upload one, or a download one.
The short answer to this well-posed question is: in Windows, *Nix (including MacOS) and Android no.In Linux yes, you can.
So the only alternative is to be looking at the data mid-stream.
And if you had that, you would be able to do this with BGP using a feature called path pre-pending and local preference rules in BGP.
It's possible to use both internet accesses to share the load of download/upload, but always only per connection.
By that stage the decision would have been made as the data is already flowing.
The only protocol that I know of that supports that natively is LISP (Locator Identifier Separation Protocol).
Default connection on Windows is first connected interface, its order is calculated by Metric (which tends to put wireless above cable).
Even if you could get such an arrangement to work between your ISP and your cell phone provider so that your IP would be reachable via both networks, it would likely cost you more than you're paying right now for both connections.
If we were to channel the upload of a mostly-download connection through a different NIC than the one used for the download part, the source of the download would see replies to its packets originate from a different IP address than the one to which it is sending packets; it is a basic security feature to disregard packets purporting to be related to a given connection, but originating from a third-party address.
Hence the upload part of the conversation would be dropped, and the connection would grind to a halt.
Splitting related connections across different providers would only be possible if you had a single IP address reachable/routeable from both providers.
But it would be difficult as youtube uses many different IP addresses (routing works on IP, not on hostnames).
(Should work same from XP to 8.1 with minor or no differences)
This is an extremely useful feature if you are building a router.
The entire connection (outgoing and incoming data) must go with only one of those IP addresses.
That IP would normally be provided to you as part of a larger block of addresses via BGP.
This is the reason why we talk about connections, not upload/download.But then one might re-formulate your question as follows: can I have a pc, which has two NICs both connected to the network, use the two NICs for two distinct connections, say the slow connection for a slow, tedious job like e-mail, and the fast connection for a quick process like Web page download?
You can easily override metric with manual order in advanced settings of network connections: How to change default connection in Windows.
Most modern programs use default connection provided by system, after connection is established it will (should) be kept on it.