If you're looking to get to a "Device" then you can type Shift-Cmd-C in the Finder window, and then use cursor keys to navigate starting from your Computer view.
Here's my way...drag the folders from the sidebar to the top.
Let’s hope Apple doesn’t remove wonderful automation features like this in a future release of macOS as some are speculating.
use Command-Shift-P, but this conflicts with ‘Show Preview’ (which I
That’s where Automator (and System Preferences) comes in:
These shortcuts take you straight there in one step (much quicker than the more Windows-like idea of getting ‘focus’ on the sidebar and navigating around it.)
and Voila you have have your favourites in the menu
doesn’t conflict with one of Apple's default Finder shortcuts.
Locate your workflow within ‘General’ and click on it.
Cmd-Space to get Spotlight, and then type your folder or drive name (or enough characters to make it the first hit) and then hit return.
Click the ‘Add Shortcut’ button and give it a keyboard shortcut that
Save your workflow and give it a logical name like ‘Go to
A new finder window will open with that folder/drive.
If all else fails remember you can navigate mouselessly using mouse keys.
workflow isn’t there, you may need to restart or log out and back
It's really regrettable you can't navigate the Sidebar of the Finder window by keystroke, I agree!
That only leaves our custom sidebar locations without shortcuts.
This is useful for User Library among other things.
I use KeyRemap with a script I made in conjunction with the dev.
Each of the Finder sidebar’s standard locations has an equivalent keyboard shortcut as can be seen by viewing the ‘Go’ menu.
For example, for a folder called ‘Projects’, I wanted to
They're not as good as what you want, but the best I could devise.
you do have a conflict, you can always redefine the default Finder
I’m surprised in the 8 years since this question was asked, no one has suggested Automator.
Go to ‘System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts’, and click on