You will only change your mail exchangers if you change the A and AAAA records for those servers.
I know that I need to change the www host to point to the IP address of the new host, but I am not sure if I have the right IP.
I am rather new to DNS, and I am not sure as to how I should transfer the hosting of a website from one server to another, as well as the email and/or without the email.
Most likely they will re-set your records (A for www, and MX for @) to some servers within 50webs.
Without an MX record, the base DNS name of your domain (eg.
If I put 198.23.52.86 in the 'www' host record, will I lose the old email servers' connection to the domain?
It will serve you well to read all the chapters of Zytrax online 'book'; you will learn all the arcane syntax of DNS.
Nowhere in there does www appear; the subdomain is not special.
You need to ask your hosting provider to allocate new IP addresses (Public) to your servers which you want to access publically with DNS .
Do a Google search for "zytrax dns" (without quotes).
Now, in your situation, I assume you're changing webhosting?
An MX record, if present for a name, indicates which DNS names route mail for the domain, and gives a priority list for their use.
@ refers to the "current" base name, and two mail exchangers are specified.
A good explanation on DNS Records, in fact my go-to reference, is Zytrax.
Then what you have to do is to contact your DNS registrant (i.e., the company where you bought your domain name from), and ask them to change the "NS" record for your domain to point to the two DNS servers as provided by your new hosting provider (50webs).
(Sorry can't provide the link directly; my smartphone's Internet connection is a bit flaky atm)
In that weird GUI you posted you can just give that DNS name and the priority.
IP 198.23.52.85 is your route please do not add this IP in your DNS.
You need to update the A record  for all of your server in DNS , if you are going to change the Web Hosting , as New hosting provider will provide New IP address to your server.
without the www) will be used as the mail exchanger.
It is optional, and if not present the A or AAAA record for the domain will be used.
tldr; basically 50webs is asking you to delegate (not "hand over"; you're still the domain's owner) management of all subdomains of your domain tothem
In your screenshot, it looks like it is already set up this way.
I inherited the following records for the domain from the last person managing it:
Also if your goind to use your hosting provider email server than you need to modify the mx records accordingly, please ask your hosting provider for details.
If you want to have proper control over which mailserver is used, you should create an additional subdomain (eg.
If I put 198.23.52.86 in the 'www' host record, will I lose the old email servers' connection to the domain?
mail), give it the IP of your mailserver, and create an MX record (with priority 10 and that domain, like IN MX 10 mail.your.domain.net.
Yes if you will update your DNS with this IP than you will not be able to send receive emails form your domain.
Additionally, I don't know how to change only the email, or what to put in the MX and/or records if I want to keep email at the old servers while moving the site.