I don't remember the error that I received, but I had similar symptoms using some cheap off-brand SD card.
I tried to ssh in, but it wouldn't accept the connection.
I always shut it down properly from the menu, and make sure it goes completely dead before  unplugging the power.
My Raspbmc-based media centre has been running happily for a couple of months, undisturbed.
I noticed that the power supply on the USB hub I'm using was whistling slightly in the way that can mean a problematic connection, so I unplugged all of the peripherals except the IR receiver (which is very low-power) and powered the RPi directly from a 5V 1A smartphone charger (which I've used successfully in the past), but this made no difference.
A clean OS install, a stripped-down setup, a known good power supply...
Same error codes at boot, or maybe I'll call it 'not boot' but anyway....
And I am currently installing the Raspbmc OS on the same card it was on prior to this error.
After spending the couple extra bucks for a SanDisk life is good.
Since it is pretty simple to go through and set up my preferences I am simply reinstalling the OS to the SD.
You could also try a different SD card, as it's possible that it's the SD card itself causing problems.
I've searched for this, but I get a lot of results that refer to other processes, other Linux builds, other hardware...
I received this error after attempting to use the "super" setting in the raspbmc settings section of raspbmc.
I'm not particularly experienced with Linux, so I'm not 100% sure what's relevant and what's not, but so far I haven't found anything that looks like it'd help me.
A couple of days ago, it froze completely; there was no response using the IR remote or the USB keyboard.
If you haven't already I would recommend that you unplug everything besides the display.
I left it for a few minutes, but was forced to conclude that it was totally stuck, and pulled the power.
It's usually just on for a few hours most evenings.
And I would recommend that you contact your vendor to see if you can get it replaced.
I'm able to edit the config on my PC and then pop the SD back into the Pi, no change.
But, most likely there is something wrong with your Raspberry Pi.
I tried a fresh Raspbmc install on a clean SD card, but the behaviour was exactly the same.
It's not on constantly; I don't have enough power sockets for the TV, stereo, RPi and games consoles, so I swap things around.
There is nothing wrong with the Pi though, my other SD booted just fine with Raspbian Wheezy on it.