I noticed I had a missing Windows Update as compared to my other Windows 10 Pro computer which doesn't have the problem.
I too tried use DiskPart to remove the Drive Letter but that too did not work.
So far I have been waiting for hopefully some Windows Update such as a Cumulative Update which might reinstall the missing Update to see if this corrects the problem.
If it's not correct (27), change it: DISKPART> set id=27 override.
I had same thing happen to me with Windows 10 Pro.
Googling problem on the Internet also found along with the suggestion to remove the Drive Letter, it was indicated that the status of the partition may not be System but rather Utility.
It is difficult to determine if the UEFI/BIOS is contributing to the problem but it has never been a problem before and the problem did not manifest itself until after doing a System Restore which backed out an update.
(https://www.digitalcitizen.life/how-hide-or-dismount-partition-windows)
In my case the Drive Letter removed but then returned by itself later.
I believe it happened after backing out a Windows Update and then applying the updates again when Windows Update installed new updates.
In my case I have three Partitions that shouldn't have Drive Letter but now do and they all seem to match up with the System Drive (C:) Reserved Partitions.
Using DiskPart, I couldn't exactly determine this and the documentation on changing the status seemed to indicate a certain danger when changing this status and I didn't want to take the risk.
Two of the Partitions with Drive Letters you can't do much with as they are either the wrong Disk File Format or the Partition is unformatted.
What I wound up doing was using Partition Wizard to simply remove the drive letter and reboot the system.
Even if Windows doesn't let you change or remove the drive letter assignment, Partition Wizard will override this and should work just fine provided you know that the 'System' partition is only the EFI boot information!
Change the ID to 17 non stop the boot function work, then you can try.
However, the Windows 10 Pro computer without the problem also is not a UEFI/BIOS computer whereas the Windows 10 Pro computer with the problem is.
And now I find I do not have the same updates as the non-UEFI/BIOS computer but this could be because a UEFI/BIOS computer could possibly take updates the non-UEFI/BIOS computer does not need.
Otherwise, I have System Image Copies of my Windows that do go back before the change took place and I may have to experiment re-installing one of them to see if that corrects the problem and then move forward with the updates again.
I know this thread is a bit old, but I found another way to do this without borking the OS.
With diskpart command, first select the partition and type: DISKPART> detail partition.