Common sense tells me that the side panel off allows for more cool air to get in.
Bonus points for answers with links to cases that claim it's more cooling efficient with the panel on
All of the systems I bought during the last years draw the (supposedly) cold air thru holes in the left side of the case via some  cone directly to the cpu cooling, one small ventilator on the back is used to push out the warm air (beside from the power supply, which has its own ventilator).
See also http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_cooling
So for a good airflow, but mostly for keeping the dust outside, I'd keep the case closed.
Depends on your cabinet design , some are designed to provide airflow to critical parts , whereas if your cabinet has a bad airflow you would be better off with panel off although it does expose your vitals to potential damage from stuff/people falling into it
Probably false, as normal air flow through a well designed cabinet with plenty of fan power would dissipate the heat, once you remove the cover the air would not flow through the cabinet and components would get hotter.
Note that there are other factors at play here - e.g.
environment cleanliness (else dust bunnies), surrounding temperature, airflow outside the case (no point in any ventilation if the case is locked in a storage cabinet anyway), humidity, etc.
But a large, industrial air conditioner blasting directly on the motherboard would be better still.
I have heard from many gamer friends that running their rigs with the side cover on is more effective for cooling the system than with a side panel off.
In other words, it depends on how the case is organized - if you just slap some components on the board, it is possible that the airflow's cooling effect will be negligible; OTOH, in a well designed case, there is a controlled airflow from entrypoints through the case to an exit point, precisely for improving the cooling.
Is this just dependent on the case and fans, or is this actually true?
I would tell your friends that you have immersed your entire computer in mineral oil cooled on the tube side of a 60 hp heat exchanger supplied with a buried earth loop using an ethylene glycol mix attached to the shell side.