Note: Note the fact that 100% activity happens at a wide range of speeds.
http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ntdebugging/archive/2009/08/17/xperf-to-investigate-slow-i-o-issues.aspx
One of the contributors to this site, Ramhound suggests SpinRite (from another post).
Although normally, the results are pretty accurate I just wanted to point out it could be something else.)
I solved it, by simply moving the SATA cable for the affected harddrive to another port.
Use xperf from the WPT (part of the Windows 8 SDK) to trace the disk IO:
One program I use for for all my HDDs is SpinRite.
In a nutshell, the problem looks like this picture:
Despite it saying XP at places, it should work for W8 fine.
After a very very painful few minutes, everything seems to go back to normal.
The best way to have a healthy drive is to run it through a program that will read each and every sector often.
Acronis Drive Monitor: Estimate health percentage, and use Windows Event Log events (which may be related to risk of data loss).
This is far more useful then say a defrag although it should be said, running a defrag, often does exactl this.
It ended up being the SATA port which had broken, making the HDD go to 100% activity, but not reading or writing anything, whenever the HDD wrote to itself.
In short, gigantic latency, very slow read speed (I assume that is caused by the same thing).
Many of the problems HDDs have they are not even aware of.
Wikipedia also gives you an overview of such S.M.A.R.T tools (too much to copy across).
The results of reports based on S.M.A.R.T data should be taken into context.
This allows the HDD to move data from bad sectors to good sectors and then mark any sectors it determines as bad as unusable.
However, like all of these things, it's only as good as the signal route - IE, a bad cable may cause false positives etc so if you can also test the cable you will have the extra reassurance (and of course then the port on the motherboard!
There is some antimalware service under Windows 8 that belongs to Windows Defender.
Another reason for extremely HDD usage is MS Windows Defender.