If you're using a shortcut to run PowerShell, try running the exe directly (as an administrator) instead and change the default properties there.
I've found this behavior before, even with Windows 7.
SOLUTION: Install new font and update registry key to match name, then set in Powershell Command Window Properties as normal.
Right click the shortcut and choose "Open file location" for an easy way to find the exe.
After closing and restarting Powershell, all of the changes I've made stick except that if I've set the font to Lucida Console then on reopening I get the Raster font.
This may come somewhat late, but I too had this problem.
I have been working on this issue for two days now in Powershell on 2012 Server in a VM and finally today I found a site with a solution.
In your case make sure Lucida is highlighted under the Font tab.
Now open a PowerShell window with normal user rights and your changes should stick.
After that, I could change the font and size and I got saved.
This is a trivial problem, but it annoys me that I can't get to the bottom of it:
Try this - open a PowerShell window in admin mode (right click the icon open as administrator), change the font and close the window.
(One observation I've made is that upon re-opening Powershell after setting the font to Lucida, at first the width of the window is what it would be if the font were Lucida, but then after a second, it widens slightly to accommodate the raster font.)
By right-clicking on the title bar I can go into the Properties and change the font, size, background colour etc without any problems.
I solved this by unchecking Properties > Options > Use legacy console.
From reading the site it seems the main cause of the issue is the fonts naming has a double-space in the font.
http://www.bdhphoto.com/script-snippits/windows-powershell-snippits/powershell-font-fix-lucida/
Recreate the shortcut if necessary once you're done changing properties.
(Note that all of the above applies to when I run Powershell as Administrator.)