Sometimes it coul be fixed by twisting the laptops frame.
While I was in my mouse settings trying various things, I decided to change my pointer cursor to the large one, and miraculously, no more jumping around.
Don't know if this is the fix or just a coincidence, but this seems to be the solution.
Looking for the freebie ...but until that happens, the "close it down and restart" patient and stubborn approach DOES work...eventually (maybe just never turn the computer off?)
You may try that in order to start windows and then change your mouse settings.
I found a program which claims it can fix this ( SparkTrust ) but it's not free.
A few days later the problem would return and the setting would be reversed.
Usually I could fix it by changing the mouse settings in the BIOS.
In Dell Latitude E6400, the following fix was found.
I had the same problem omn dozens of Dell lattitude C series laptops.
That helps quite a bit, inserting the use mouse brings up a warning.
In this system, we sometimes could get a USB mouse to work, so we could use the machine, but that required a BIOS setting that disabled the touchpad while USB mouse was installed.
However, once you disable that stupid track stick, then you can turn on touchpad.
I did not matter what the setting where, just switching them to the alternate setting would work.
I have a dell inspirion 8500 laptop which annoys me with its wandering pointer...by shutting down the computer and restarting it ( from 4-6 times ) I have finally overcome the problem.
Also, in Win 7 mouse settings, I found an option to use software to turn off touchpad while mouse is installed.
There is in the Control Panel a Mouse item, choose that, wander through settings until you get to the thing where you can disable the track STICK.
Problem was very bad, cursor pulled off to side even in the system bios.
My Toshiba Accupoint stops drifting if I put a cold pack (from my freezer) underneath.
THey did replace the touchpad in the end of the warranty period, but trouble with drift began after that, and their answer was "too late for you".