The clients are configured to retrieve their emails directly from the mail hoster and store the mails locally.
You don't import the PST into Outlook when Outlook is connecting to an Exchange server using MAPI/RPC or RPC over HTTP.
The branch office has several users using Outlook (2007/2010).
The central site has a Microsoft Exchange 2010 server, that is not doing much at the moment.
This is inconvenient, to say the least, so we plan to make the Exchange server the centralized mail server for all the clients.
You'll import the PST files into the mailboxes at the central office, configure Outlook to connect to the mailbox using MAPI/RPC or RPC over HTTP and that's it.
One is a branch office and the other one is the central.
Like, importing the content of the .pst into Exchange, configure the client to connect to the Exchange, and importing the content of the same .pst to Outlook (now configured to connect to Exchange)?
The question: Is there a way to shortcut the synchronization process?
The only caveat is if you configure Outlook in cached mode there will be a "synchronization" process while Outlook creates an OST file (offline file) of the mailbox contents on the client machine.
Branch-wide connectivity to the Exchange server is already accomplished, so now we have to migrate the clients to use the Exchange server.
The problem is, that we don't want to start a huge synchronization process, because the branch office has an abysmal internet connection and would take ages to get back all the mails from the then central Exchange.
There's no importing of the PST file into Outlook.
Instead of the clients pulling their mails directly from the mail hoster, the Exchange will pull the mails for the clients and will deliver them at their leisure.
Now, the plan is to export the contents of the Outlook accounts into a .pst, drive over to the central site, dump the contents of the .pst into the respective Exchange post box, and to reconfigure the clients (with a new profile) to now use the Exchange server.