Well, maybe it's only there so that Dell can boast about having “1GB VRAM!!”.
This article treats how the GTS 250 stacks against the Radeon HD 4870 (and others).
NVIDIA does not make their own chipsets, but license them to third parties to manufacture.
Regardless, I'm an NVIDIA fanboy and would say to go with at least the GTS 240...
the 4650, which is widely available with passive cooling (zero noise).
Hell, “Starcraft and video editing” will run just fine on the poxiest of current integrated chipsets.
Don't buy a big butch power-sucking 3D monster unless you're really going to use it.
My personal conclusion is that performance-wise there are only slight differences between the models.
It contains this comparison chart that tells you everything technical that you ever wanted to know and were afraid to ask about.
Which probably means that the lower model of GTS 240 is inferior to the Radeon.
It's not the polygon-masher the 4870 is, but it'll cope with any of today's games.
I have mine set around 38% and it runs perfectly cool even under load and is no louder than any other video card.
They're still available, are cheap, very quiet, and unless you decide to get some crazy complex game they're more than sufficient.
This amount of memory probably isn't justified by the specs of the GPU itself; 1GB is big even on a full 250.
You say you're not doing high-end gaming; if that's the case both those cards are hugely overpowered and will generate far more heat and noise than you need.
Although there are a lot of video cards which give much better performance and are very reasonable in price (*cough* the GTS 250, which is based off of the N92 chipset - ever hear of an 8800GT/9800GT?
The noise on the HD4870 isn't terrible if you go into the Catalyst Control Center and manually adjust the fan speed (it is in the overdrive section).
More importantly, it contains detailed performance analysis for different screen resolutions in the section First-Person 3D Shooters.
ATI are generally considered to be winning the mid-end at the moment.