http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/DIRECTED_RESEARCH/DR_WANIDA/DR/JavisInActionFastRetransmitFrame.html
This is the sequence number of the missing packet and can be sent to the receiver.
The advantage of TCP Fast Retransmission is that it doesn't wait for the packet timeout to initiate a transmission and hence a faster retransmission of packet, as the name also suggests.
Simply put, TCP Retransmission is mostly dependent on the packet's time out to detect a miss while, in TCP Fast Retransmission, duplicate acknowledgement for a particular packet symbolizes it's miss.
When a packet is sent using TCP, it has a sequence number transmitted with it.
The source can then see the packet's sequence number for which the NACK was triggered.
Retransmission, essentially identical with Automatic repeat request (ARQ), is the resending of packets which have been either damaged or lost.
In Wireshark I can see things that say "TCP Retransmission" and "TCP Fast Retransmission."
Based on the way you asked your question, I'm assuming you know this.
The sender will then retransmit the packet that was presumed dropped before waiting for its timeout.
TCP Fast Retransmission is when the source gets confirmation that the packet wasn't received...quoting from Fast retransmit - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
TCP Retransmission is just a packet that doesn't acknowledge within the timeout.
Fast Retransmit is an enhancement to TCP which reduces the time a sender waits before retransmitting a lost segment.The fast retransmit enhancement works as follows: if a TCP sender receives a specified number of acknowledgements which is usually set to three duplicate acknowledgements with the same acknowledge number (that is, a total of four acknowledgements with the same acknowledgement number), the sender can be reasonably confident that the segment with the next higher sequence number was dropped, and will not arrive out of order.
Mostly 3 duplicate acknowledgment for a packet is deduced as a packet miss.
When the receiver receives the packet, they send an acknowledgement to the sender with the sequence number showing that packet was received.
It is a term that refers to one of the basic mechanisms used by protocols operating over a packet switched computer network to provide reliable communication.