This is because A, they will be online when attempting multiplayer, and B, they will want to use their own account for multiplayer.
The only thing you can do it make it difficult for them.
What is to stop him from making a fake Apple account, purchasing items and then posting this account on the web allowing everyone to get the items for free?
If the currently logged in account doesn't own the products do we lock them again?
We do not want this to be an always online game but have considered doing a check on startup if there is internet available.
At some point we will be adding multiplayer at which point we can definately do a check with the currently logged in account.
If someone else logs in, the access to the encrypted content isn't there unless the access flag is on the account.
So even if someone downloads all the content, moving it to someone else computer would only allow them to not have to download it but they'd still have to buy it online to access it.
These can be restored should the app ever be deleted and reinstalled as long as the user uses the same Apple ID.
We are currently wrapping up a free-to-play game on iOS in which you can purchase non-consumable products.
But, if you're adding multiplayer, it would be easy to prevent a lot of people from using the same account by only allowing it to log-in once which would hamper online use of the given account.
But a smaller case would be a user unlocking items for his friends.
Firstly, if someone is going to "steal" the purchasable digital items from you, it's going to happen eventually.
Probably not because people may simply sign into the device with different Game Center logins at which point we don't want to constantly lock and unlock items.
We have been discussing this case internally and are not quite sure what the best practices are as this is our first title.
For example, if a user downloads our app, and makes some purchases.
So, when someone logs in and buys something, the access flag to it gets stored on their profile (which would have to be stored on your database but also cached locally).
All in all, there is no possible way to nicely prevent someone from sharing an account with all unlocked content (unless you require an internet connection to initially enable the content each time you start the game).