To find an optimal channel there is plenty of software and hardware solutions available if your router does not perform this service by default.
Primarily, there may be QoS (Quality of Service) protocols in place on your office router that is designed to route the traffic in a method that has been set up and designed by your network admin.
If I try it with another router the problem is the same.
Depending on distance from the router, protocol used, environment (lots of cement around creating a rebound effect), or anything of the type you may be seeing a whole host of other factors that need to be addressed.
More important traffic is routed before less important traffic.
I'm kind of new in this, but I educated myself to set it up and get it working, but I can't google up a solution for this.
I've been dealing with the following problem for a few days now and would kindly ask you for suggestions on what did I configured wrong.
How this effects you: There are usually either group policies, or more deliberate methods that are used to say what traffic from your portion of the network is important or not.
Router (only for me, LAN works, camera works, WiFi connects and sometimes works – very poor performance + terrible ping, loosing packets, than drops)
The first issue might impact general performance on your mini network while the second would cover most WiFi issues.
Cable from LAN port 1 on Router 1 to WAN port on Router 2
The easiest solution in this case is to change what channel your WiFi is broadcasting on.
In my Office I need 2 networks, one for my desktop & notebook & android, my camera and my printer, the other one for the whole office & colleagues.
You may be dealing with a few issues here and I'll try to address them.
By introducing this new router, it is possible that you are just tossing out all of the QoS protocol messages and ending up as a default traffic which in most implementations is the lowest priority.
Second, since your main issue seems to be with the WiFi it is possible that it is coming into conflict with other signals or hotspots that are competing with it.