I did it by using the Microsoft System Center Virtual Machine Manager to import the servers just as if they were physical servers.
http://searchservervirtualization.techtarget.com/tip/0,289483,sid94_gci1225164,00.html?asrc=SS_CLA_303373&psrc=CLT_94
Finally, this forum thread has similar information as the above two sites:
If you want to go for the big solution with more functions under the hood you can try VMware vCenter Converter.
Just converting the vmdk to a vhd won't transfer the server to Hyper-V as all the drivers will be wrong.
use WinImage 8.1, it can help you to convert vpc images between VHD and VMDK, easy to use and powerful.
Some of theme have some more functions like converting a running PC to a image and converting to other formats.
Check the following comment thread for issues you may have with VMware drivers and the black screen after convertsion:
There are now several tools available to achieve this task.
I've tried converting VMDK to VHD and ended up with a black screen and inability to start Windows after conversion.
I had to do just the same as you, with about half a dozen VMWare virtual servers.
Some notes: uninstall VMWare Tools from the virtual servers before you do the import to Hyper-V or they'll give errors when you start the imported Hyper-V servers.
My imported servers give occasional w32time errors, but apart from that they work perfectly.
System Center VMM really is the way to go, even if I can currently having a hard time with it.
At least that was my experience with a Vista conversion.
Another one is Vmdk2Vhd from vmToolkit but I have no experience with this one.
There's an article here with similar or the same information as the comment thread above, but it requires registration:
http://vmtoolkit.com/blogs/announcements/archive/2006/11/20/vmdk-to-vhd-converter-available.aspx
A few notes, you can't (in my experience) uninstall VMWare Tools "after the fact".
I think the SCVMM is a free download from Microsoft, or at least an evaluation version is available.
Because they keep the converted system from working to the point where you can boot up and log in.