Myself and my Wife, I map all drives shared on "FamilyStorage".
Obviously this relies on your child not eventually manually browsing the network shares or attempting access using the network path instead of the mapped drive.
Since I am not on a domain, I cannot set permissions on "FamilyStorage" based on machine name.
And there is a lot of pictures and video files... TB's worth.
For my son though, I map only to his home-drive and to the "Pictures" drive.
And then modify your batch files to point to the desired share type when mapping the drive letter.
For example:  For example:  LoginDad.bat or LoginMom.bat or LoginSon.bat
Then I set the drive to READ ONLY and I map to that drive instead in his login script but again, the issue with this is now i'm maintaining another drive and using up all that extra storage space.
My main machine is called "FamilyStorage" and it's similar to a file server.
Connected to this machine are multiple hard drives with different data on each drive.
At the end of the day... when I log into my pc and my wife into hers... we both need full access to the Picture drive mapping and we have it.
For example:  NET USE P:  //familyStorage/Pictures -ro
At the same time, I would like to map P for my son as well but with him, he gets read only.
I need help with setting folder permissions when accessing folders from across my network (vs. logging into a Win 7 machine locally.)
For my wife, myself and my son, i created custom login scripts which are used on our respective PC's.
It's basically a Notepad file that i rename to .BAT.
I really do not want to have to remote control into my "FamilyStorage" machine every time I want to copy pictures down or rename folders.
No one actually logs into this machine locally, except me.
I know that's wrong but hopefully it makes sense as to what i'm trying to do.
I am hoping there is a way I could take my Login Script file and add some kind of switch which would cause the mapping to be in a read only mode.
I'm concerned about him being able to delete files and I'd like to change his access to READ ONLY.
I also do not want to have to duplicate this Picture drive... because then i'm maintaining 2 sets of files and it's taking up twice the storage space.
Duplicate the drive and give it a name "PicturesSon".
In addition, since we do not log in locally, setting individual user permission also does not resolve my issue.