Both of my addresses are used evenly, and it has been really nice to have all of my e-mail end up in my Exchange box.
Not exactly what you asked, but we block about 95% of spam with stock Exchange 2007 just by using the Spamhaus block list at no cost.
See http://mboffin.com/post.aspx?id=1636 for full instructions, but essentially you just need to:
The question probably belongs on SuperUser, but...
Yes, Gmail can filter your spam if you route all your mail through it.
If you prefer Gmail, then you can skip steps 2 and 3!
If you're using web access, you're stuck with whatever the hosting provider is doing (or not doing).
Can you control the blocklist in the hosted Exchange?
But you will need to forward your mail a couple of times.
If you wanted all your mail to go through Gmail, you'd have to use that as your primary address, forward all the messages from there to your Exchange account, and have a Reply-To address set on your Exchange mailbox that's your Gmail address.
Edit: your comments make it sound like this hosted service is used for your company.
If so, isn't there any pressure you can exert on the vendor to add spam-filtering?
I currently have a hosted MS Exchange account and a Gmail account.
I like replying from one address consistently, which is my Exchange address.
I'm getting at least 50 Viagra ads a day and it's driving me insane.
I don't want to have two spam filtration systems that have quarantines that I need to check frequently for false positives.
Can I setup my MX records such that all e-mail sent to my Exchange address is forwarded to my Gmail account, which will then forward it to my Exchange account?
Google will not accept mail addressed to your domain, so you still need your own mail server to receive it, but you can then forward it to Google - and have Google forward it back to you.
Spam sent to my Gmail address is always caught, where spam sent to my Exchange is getting passed straight through to me.
Now, any mail to any account will be filtered by Gmail and then sent to your new account.
If you're using Outlook, you could use one of the spam filtering plug-ins for that.