Now I can ping the Linux clients from the Windows clients (fast),
See my document draft-ietf-dnsext-dnsproxy for the whys and wherefores.
The router supports the internal DNS relay provided the clients are in the same workgroup !
I seriously doubt that the D-LINK 2640-T has a built-in DDNS server.
Your clients DNS settings should be pointing to the Dlink router's IP address, so that the client asks your router for names.
"ping windowshostname" or ping "anylinuxname" from linux host results in a 2..3 seconds waiting time followed by very slow response times.
It looks like the d-link router will move the ip of the dns to it's outside interface and therefore not respond to it anymore on the inside.
In your case I'd strongly suggest running a real internal DNS server, rather than rely on the forwarder built into your router.
Answering my question (after continue the hard way learning about networking, which I am not expert in)
The manual is pointing to the firewall settings of the router to switch off the DNS-Blocking from external (which doesnt make sense to me).
According to the Datasheet on that product it has DNS Relay support, and DDNS.
But even with that in place it just does not work.
I setup pi-hole on the inside interface and I can point my devices to it.
The DNS relay portion is to permit your "internal" clinets to point to the DSL router/modem and have it forward queries recursively to the Internet for resolution.
And all I got from  DLink support: Please reset and try again... What I did, no change.
But Ubuntu, or better Linux, doesnt really now about the workgroup concept (I guess) until you install/activate samba.
it stops communicating with it and the pi-hole loses internet access.
The DDNS functionality is implemented as a DDNS client to update public DDNS sites so that your External IP of the DSL Router can automatically update DNS records on the Internet.
The router should reply all internal names to your client, and should use your ISP's DNS servers for external lookups.
I think I am having similar issues with d-link router.
when I point the router dns (client) to the pi-hole.
Are your client computers able to register in DNS?
You will need to either use hosts files or run your own Internal DNS server.
I doubt they include a DDNS server that allows your "internal" clients to self-register with teh DSL modem/router device.
I'm not sure that "DNS-Blocking from external..." has anything to do with it.