The virtualizationmatrix web can provide some insight into various hypervisors features and their comparison.
That's this module with this license and costs this much.
If you want additional features you need to ask specifically with what your goals are.
VMWare is also using bully tactics now against vendors in a market that is really changing now thanks to MS and Citrix, and they're innovating by stifling their third party vendors (for example, Veeam was told to disable certain functionality they had in their products for use with VMWare ESXi, the free bare-metal hypervisor).
VMWare is the oldest and has the most toys, commercially.
Xen is mature and has decent tools; I've heard good buzz about it, but I'm kind of wary of companies that use outdated information on their site for their propaganda (er, sales comparisons).
They have mature features that you pay through the nose for.
Ooh, you want to convert a physical system without the converter?
However, it all depends on what it is that you wish to achieve.
My main problem with them (aside from their cost) is that their tools are like freakin' lego bricks of gold...you can do live migration?
It comes with this license that costs this much...mix and match, mix and match!
They're all free if you're just trying to virtualize something, so I guess that's pretty low cost.
They also have a format that is available for conversions and since they're big and mature they have a robust community out there available for help.
Xen also has a history from the open source side of the development before it was available as a commercial thing.
So if you're just wanting to play with virtualization, all of them have free offerings to try that are limited just by your hardware.
I'm surprised that nobody has mentioned OpenVZ or VServer.
Like anythin in this industry you have to decide what's most important to you; speed, functionality, support or cost - you can often have two or three of these things but not always all four - what's most important to you?
It also means that when someone else tells you to "oh sure, just open this then click here and here and run this to fix the problem," you suddenly realize you didn't license a feature that they licensed.
Both are 'light-weight' virtualisation options for Linux.
Hyper-V is the new kid on the block and has plenty of people saying that the management tools aren't quite there yet, but if it's typical of Microsoft they'll come along later on and probably will eventually have more third-party tools.