So "" can, in fact, mean at least three different things.
The simplest solution to this case of ambiguity is to directly signal your goal.
Remember, the most important thing after getting your code working at all is to make it maintainable.
Is there anywhere else I need to watch out for this?
When a maintenance programmer sees an empty string expressed as "", they must try to understand the original programmer's intent.
They might be null, or they might be empty, or they might have a value.
You should be flogged if you ever cause that one to be correct, but it could be.
If "" is never used when you want an empty string, any usage of it is clearer, because it now has only two possibilities.
It in fact returns true, because 0-prefixed integer literals are in fact octal.
So tread carefully, and try to avoid leaving landmines in your source code.
In this particular case, it has been suggested that you use string.IsNullOrWhitespace instead.
The closest common case is, surprisingly, with integer literals.
In your question, you have a Where checking against an empty string.
This I fully agree with, as it correctly signals your intent.
Some even argue that it can be confused with " ", though that is fairly unlikely.
The example below contains all the characters in the example above:
Leaving a bunch of octal literals around is an easy way to cause new, confusing bugs during maintenance.
Now, this may seem minor, and to some extent it is.
This is not the kind of thing you want to leave for a maintenance programmer to figure out.
What if you were simply writing the code quickly and needed the line to compile while working on something else, and never came back to add the correct value?
The problem arises, like so many in this industry, when you consider maintenance.
There are many ways to cause problems in the future, and you will thank yourself later on.
Strings represent a rather unique case, because of their syntax.
After all, no one when writing code can possibly mistake one for the other.
But more than that, the syntax for an empty string is a subset of the syntax for a string literal.
It is a few characters longer, but it has a single, unambiguous meaning.