→   PPPoE Active Discovery Request (PADR): After the client receives a PADO it will use this unicast packet to connect to a server and request service.
During the life of the session the packets may be uniquely identified by the client’s MAC address and session-id.
In short, your client does not interact directly with the RADIUS server, the head-end router does.
The router you dial into forwards the authentication request to a RADIUS server, the client itself does not contact the RADIUS server directly.
To complete the phase the client and server must communicate a session-id.
For your home router to establish a WAN connection to your ISP, a few things specific to PPP must happen first.
→   PPPoE Active Discovery Session-confirmation (PADS) A server may respond to the client with this unicast packet to establish the session and provide the session-id.
During the discovery phase all packets are delivered to the PPPoE control plane (CPM or MDA).
This broadcast packet is used by the client to search for an active server (Access Concentrator) providing access to a service.
Discovery: The client identifies the available servers.
Multiple servers may respond and the client may choose a server to connect to.
The same goes for PPPoE, the encapsulation is just different.
The router's configuration will have a list of RADIUS servers to use.
If the head-end router lets the client complete the connection, then some time later it restarts the authentication challenge, to make sure the client is still allowed and hasn't been swapped for an unauthorized client.
The IOM identifies these packets by their ethertype (0x8863).
You may also have to do some research on LCP and NCP.
Your client responds to the head-end router, which forwards an authentication to the RADIUS server, which says "Let him in" or "Not allowed".
Your client speaks to the head-end router, which is configured to only allow authenticated connections, so it queries the client for authentication.
https://infoproducts.alcatel-lucent.com/html/0_add-h-f/93-0098-09-01/7750_SR_OS_Triple_Play_Guide/concepts_PPPoE.html
Multiple RADIUS servers can be defined to allow for redundancy.
→   PPPoE Active Discovery Offer (PADO): If the access server can provide the service it should respond with a unicast PADO to signal the client it may request connectivity.
There are numerous of configuration samples to be found on the internet, it's pretty standard and widely deployed.
•   Session: Once the session ID is established connectivity is available for the duration of the session, using ethertype 0x8864.
PPPoE has two phases, the discovery phase and the session phase.•
The session can terminate either by PADT sent by the client or server or by an LCP Terminate-Request packet.
Check this link below, it may have the answer you are looking for (see the excerpt on PPPoE below):
It would help if you provide us with the brand and type of router you have to provide a configuration sample.
A quick google gave me this: http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/wan/point-to-point-protocol-ppp/10361-advancedradius.html.