You still need the team of experienced and knowledgeable craftsmen to work those tools and there's no getting around that.
It's a constant construction and modification process where a team of people are continually adding more and more to the software and refining the behaviour until it finally does something close to what they hoped for.
It's important to realise this because some people think that they could make these AAA games themselves if only they had the correct program for it - but the programs are only the tools.
There are very few standard tools, which might be surprising:
If you haven't done a big game before, this is where you have to make some choices about what external code to bring in, otherwise you'll spend far too much of your time developing technology and not much on the actual game.
But the good news is that going from small games to big games is just a series of incremental steps - as you understand the procedures better, the route to the top becomes a lot clearer.
One important thing to remember is that software development is not a production line where you feed stuff into a program or tool and get a game out of the other side.
This is not necessarily an off-the-shelf piece of software like Unity, Unreal, or the latest Id Tech engine, but basically refers to whatever lump of code you have at your disposal that has been used to previously make a game and which can be re-purposed to make your future game.
but there is a lot of experience in doing it, and a lot of prior code used for the purpose.
Today's massive games are built on the games of 5 years ago.
If all this sounds sadly vague then unfortunately that is the nature of the beast.
There are various bespoke tools that sometimes come with specific game engines, or which are developed in-house.
Often it's a bit of a hybrid, as you might have licensed some 3rd party code for certain features but written much of your own around it.
Level editors, particle effect viewers, archive creation tools, conversation tree designers, etc etc.
All depends on what sort of games you make, what engine you're using, and whether you got around to making these tools in the past or whether you just stuck with hand-editing text files...
There is no magical tool to automatically make AAA games (although UDK and Unity are getting close!)