Now I'm trying to make autossh (from Debian / Raspbian package autossh) to work too but I'm not succeeding.
(I've changed the real IP here in this question to 37.xxx.yyy.zzz to not post the server's actual IP)
You should continue to specify the reverse tunnel that you want using ssh's -R option.
I tried to "-vvv" the output of the ssh commands but it just shows that nothing is going on.
It first ask for the server's password, then for the Pi's password and everything is fine.
If I try the correct port (20000) but this time with the -t param, same thing: it "works" but I don't get no terminal/prompt.
Note that I don't think it's a firewalling issue as the "non autossh" method works fine (but then I don't get the automatic "always up" / reconnect feature).
(just asked this on SO but was adviced to take it here)
So everything works fine: I enter the password and I get a terminal/prompt.
This "works" but it's just stuck there, doing nothing.
It's not asking for password, it's not showing any terminal/prompt.
I managed to create a reverse SSH tunnel between a Raspberry Pi 2 and a server of mine (server which has a static IP) and it works fine.
The user account I'm using on the server is called "ksproxy" (it's not really a "proxy" but whatever).
I'd really like to make autossh work (I know I could find a workaround, like some crontab automatically relaunching my manual SSH tunnel but that'd probably be more brittle than making autossh work).
In this case, you're not using the ssh -R option to set up a reverse tunnel; you're specifying the autossh -M option instead.
The autossh -M parameter causes autossh to set up a tunnel on that port which autossh uses for its own purposes (to regularly test that the SSH link is still working).
When you connect to port 20000 in this scenario, you're being connected to autossh's private connection-testing port.
If you want to use autossh's echo port feature, you should run that on a different port:
I can even access the Raspberry Pi from my desktop (by first going through the server), doing: