Looking back at the more detailed results included in the question, we can see that in the TLS1.2-only config, you were using only 256 bit ciphers (even though some of the cipher suites were frowned upon), while in the TLS1.2+TLS1.3 config you were using a mix of 128 bit and 256 bit ciphers.
Consider this snippet of the version of the nginx.conf that is part of the A+ and 100% score:
Now, this pretty much highlights that while this tool is a very useful resource (particularly to point out actual bad configurations), it's not a great idea to focus too much on the exact scoring, rather to look at the whole report.
Is it possible to get a perfect 100% score with nginx and TLS 1.2 and 1.3 enabled?
It complains about a couple of the cipher suites, but it still gives an otherwise perfect score:
Somehow enabling TLS 1.3 makes those same weak ciphers that pass before start failing.
It's no longer mad at the strength of the cipher suites:
Which brings us to... the same cipher suites that are required for a successful handshake for older devices/apps are listed as "weak" and pass when only TLS 1.2 is enabled.
Now, if I add TLS v1.3 to the mix as the only config change, the score changes.
Based on their rating system, this explain why you got a reduced score in "Cipher Strength".
Particularly their "Intermediate" configuration strikes a good balance between broad compatibility and security, and there is a config generator for popular TLS servers for convenient translation of suggested settings into actual server configuration.
It seems like the choice is: either enable TLS 1.2 only to get a perfect score, or, enable TLS 1.3 too but get dinged for the necessary cipher suites?
There's not really a good way to remove the CBC mode ciphers perfectly, but maybe excluding SHA1, SHA256, and SHA384 will work.
ssl_ciphers AES256+EECDH:AES256+EDH:!aNULL:!SHA1:!SHA256:!SHA384;
Regarding your actual question, which is about the Qualys SSL Labs test tool itself, we'll have to dig into how their rating system works.
As your question is about why you got a slightly lower score in the Cipher Strength category with one of your proposed configs over the other, let's focus on that category specifically:
I have created an nginx config that got a perfect score on Qualsys SSL Labs using only TLS v1.2, and I'd like to try and get a perfect score using both TLS v1.2 and v1.3.
But apparently it's unhappy about the failing handshakes that worked before:
As for what is actually a reasonable TLS setup, unless you have a strong idea of what you need, I would suggest looking at the Server Side TLS guidance maintained by Mozilla's Operations Security and Enterprise Information Security teams.
Fortunately Qualys have published their SSL Server Rating Guide, which describes their methodology for rating SSL/TLS configurations.