In addition this scales gracefully because if you need to expand from 5 to 6 peering points, you will likely only need to invest in one small piece of equipment, vs outgrowing a single core device and having to scrap it in favor of one that offers a little more capacity.
If I have a group of access switches, each accessing different VLANs, do I want that traffic to have to cross both a distribution switch and then hit a sub interface on the WAN router?
The Core layer is responsible for fast transportation across a network.
I'm looking for rational arguments in favor of this design.
When dealing with intelligent devices, scale capability is often all-or-nothing.
The core should only have the "dumb" objective to only deliver the data.
Your WAN router is still a different device, but instead of having a "dumb" core, you have a core that runs EIGRP, and learns and shares the networks it "knows".
Shortest, quickest path is from the Host to the Access Switch to the Distribution switch and then to whatever the traffic is bound on the LAN.
If you put your firewalls at the edge of your network, and you have 5 peering points, then you have (ideally) 5 redundant points so losing one of them does not affect more than a small portion of your services, and ideally they are laid out so that a failure in one cause the others to automatically take over the traffic.
You certainly can ask 10 people and get 10 different answers.
This is inefficient and causes load on the router that could easily be handled by a layer 3 switch.
While I completely agree with this design, I'm looking at the "why?
That means no big firewall on the center, no content-serving, etc.
Mainframe salesmen aside, you will probably find a majority who will favor something between balanced and fully distributed.
Not to throw a wrench in the above, but Collapsed Core configurations are becoming more and more common.
You want it receive traffic not bound for the LAN and send it out over the internet or MPLS network.
The distribution layer, however, is where intelligent routing should occur.
I have always been told during my network education that the Internet (and any computer network) is and should be designed so that the intelligence is not located on the core of the network.
In a collapsed core configuration, you combine both the Distribution layer and the Core layer into one.
If you had the Core layer do the routing, you'd essentially have all L3 traffic hit it first and be sent back in to the LAN.
You don't want to have a WAN Router also be doing VLAN routing, if you don't have to.
The more intelligent routing you try and perform there the more you slow down the rate of packet flow.
The key advantage that moving the processing away from the core creates is a more peer-oriented topology where outages do not affect entire services.