2- You want a "symmetric" connection, with upload speed at least as great as download speed.
But if you choose host them in house and share the same bandwidth for your own use, you may encounter some issues down the road.
They are more expensive, but in your situation it is necessary.
And a high-sounding price for how much power you get to your cabinet.
$200-$300 can get you a very decent dedicate host package with pretty much unlimited bandwidth.
You should investigate "Co-Location" (colo) at a datacenter near you first.
For instance, I pay $35/month for 6Mbit down, but only get about 1Mbit up.
In a commercial setting, a consumer DSL router will not suffice.
Probably far far better an dmore reliable than what can be done in residential areas, either by technology limits (my fibre is only 20mbit) and I have limits on my data usage as well.
You might be able to get a T1, but charges for that can vary significantly and the equipment is more complicated.
I believe with my local ISP it's possible to get 6Mbps symmetric for about $130/month, but they want you to actually call them and they don't say what they would charge for 30Mbps.
Your host will probably be able to handle your scaling faster/sooner than the date when the service growing in your house can't handle it and you suddenly have to "move" in the middle the night and suffer some Twitter-style outtage.
I think you should separate your bandwidth for your develop use and website traffic.
If you are going to spend that kind of money, you can get some very very nice hosting plans in the range of $200/300 /mo.
3- You want a FIXED IP ADDRESS -- it might be worth your while to pay for a small subnet, so that you can have several completely separate boxes (say one for development).
What country, what state, what phone company, and how far you are from the phone company equipment.
Typical home broadband has download 4-5x faster than upload, which is fine for a web-content consumer.
Your actual ratios will be quite a bit the other direction as a web-content provider.
Upgrading bandwidth is easy in this scenario: just a phone call.
and the datacenter will have power backup and network redundancy to keep your app alive that simply is not the case with residential service.
I think you probably got the message about hosting, right?
If you are serious about your new start-up, you need to think host your business elsewhere that is more reliable.
You may need to get a local business license in order to get it, but you should probably do that anyway.
Depending on the site, you probably get a couple 100Mbit or gigabit connections and get charged for your peak traffic (95th percentile with data samples taken every 5 or 6 minutes is typical).
I imagine there are hundreds in your area, which is metropolitan and has a robust tech sector.
In the US you'd probably want to look for "SDSL" (symmetric DSL; same rate down as up).
If you are a "roll your own" kind of guy, there are plenty of options.
I've seen ISPs (speakeasy, for instance) that have ADSL offerings available for only a little more with a higher bitrate up.
For broadband internet, you should be able to find what you are looking for from your local telephone provider, or from any other local ISP.
I would also mention that handling a remote host, you are setting yourself up for handling how that will work.
For hosting servers, you need to concentrate on how much bandwidth you have going out, and mostly ignore how much bandwidth down.