This is a very broad subject area without more details.
but it is not that easy espeically when databases get involved.
I would suggest these guys www.smarterdedicatedserver.com since they are really cheap and offer good uptime protection at their datacenter.
I'd wander over to the dedicated server forum on Web Hosting Talk and see what people are saying about the providers in your price range.
In terms of setting up the failover or even load balancing you can use this company http://www.autofailover.com/ or something similar.
Basically - server broken, please replace on warranty.
I would suggest you get a backup dedicated server, obviously it doesn't need to be nearly as beefy as your present server since it will only be used for backup purposes.
This will determine whether we're looking at real-time replication (in the same or another datacenter) or recovery from disk/tape-based backup.
You'll also need to keep the two servers synced, I would either write a script to do this nightly and use something like database mirroring (SQL Server) to keep the databases synced up in real time or some other replication strategy.
What is the best way to deal with this type of situation?
If you want specific details of anything, we need to know what application(s) you're running that need to be highly available.
If a server crashess twice per month, there are two things possible:
If the former, look at getting co-located or hosted in a secondary datacentre with real-time replication.
No service can possibly be 100% uptime so if that is important I would setup a second dedicated server.
Specifically we need to know whether the failures you've had are due to comms link or hardware.
Its definately going to be extra work but the uptime will be much better.
If the latter, we need to know how quickly you need to get back online after a failure.
It's clear something is awry with your current provider and your confidence in their ability to provide reliable service is waning.
I need to find a way to get another server going at a different provider that I can just flip on in case this happens again.
Well my $379 dedicated sever just went cold again for the second time this month.