They have a large number of endpoints in the US and their pricing is reasonable.
When you go to sites such as Google, you often randomly get a foreign language version of the service, depending on which exit proxy you happened to use.
Usually you use Tor to have anonymity and you let it randomly choose whatever exit proxy it wants.
Alternatively if you have any kind of presence in that region you could setup your own proxy server in that location and serve yourself from there.
If you need to create short-lived proxy servers for testing region-dependent content, EC2 is quite cost-effective, as you only pay for the CPU time and network that you use.
I don't know of a proxy server listing that you could use, but a couple of not completely free options you could utilize could include shared hosting servers from providers located within the regions in question which should be fairly cheap.
In case you prefer a proxy-based solution, I've had a good experience with the VPNs from hidemyass.com.
See http://www.torproject.org/ for further information.
You can check out "foxyproxy" a firefox plugin that also has a list of free proxies.
The rendering should be very similar in most cases.
If it's related to one region in particular, it might be easier to ask the users to save the page (Save As/Export in most browsers) and send it to you.
For instance, according to the Amazon EC2 information page:
There are VPS providers that offer hosts in many places around the world.
most free proxy servers are not very reliable,and may not be available in the geolocations you need for testing.
However if you wish you can manually specify the proxy to use (in the configuration file).
also have a service offering proxy servers in various locations for $8 per month...
Neither of these options is ideal, but they might be more reliable than a free proxy service since you could have full control over how the servers you are using are functioning and accessing said content.
This is quite convenient because there are Tor proxies in many different geographical locations.