You'll get to pick any name you want, but it will have to be part of a larger name, like: mychosenname.example.com ...where example.com is name of the service provider.
I have IIS installed on my windows 8 and set it up and it works fine.
You have to use the address assigned to you by your internet provider.
These cost real money; maybe not a lot of money, but you won't be able to get one for free.
When you set up this service, you will need to install a program that will contact the service's web site and update their listing with your current IP address.
If you don't want to use a name like that, you'll have to buy a domain name.
This is the case where you might want to update hosts files, or if your router supports create a special dns entry on the router.
now I can access it by using IP address (2.2.2.1) but I want to access it by using a name (e.g home-network) and not using IP address.
Public IP addresses have actual owners... you won't be able to use that address successfully on the public internet, because you don't own it.
Also Before this question I made my host file a change but that didn't work.
And if you use your own purchased name, the service may want to charge you a monthly fee for the privilege of forwarding traffic (hosting your dns records) for that name to your IP address.
These services will make you choose names that follow a specific format.
This assigned address can change from time to time, so you also need to a service that can automatically map a name you select to your IP address.
When the service is up and running, you will also need to set up a port forwarding rule on your internet router, so that requests that come in to the router will be forwarded on to your web server.
Dyndns used to be a popular choice, but they stopped offering this for a free a while back.
After all that is done, you should be able to put the name you selected into any web browser from anywhere in the world and reach your web site... except perhaps your own home, as some routers don't like hairpin routing and won't handle the forward rule back to your web server.