I'm not a big fan of Macs, so if you are one, please don't downvote me.
For Web Dev, you can test on Safari for Mac, which sometimes is a bit different than Safari for PC.
I'm not in for the which is cheaper argument, but I will say I get more done on my Mac than anything else...mainly from a maintenance and ease of use point of view, but that's my personal experience.
FileZilla - FTP Software, free and available for Mac and PC.
I don't see any difference between coding in a Mac and in a PC.
Just browse through these and pick your favorite, and install it using your distro's package manager (in Ubuntu, just go to Applications -> Ubuntu Software Center and you'll find all these in there).
As a personal note, I'm using Geany and I have to say it does the job pretty well for me.
Cornerstone - The easiest to use SVN client I've tried
Tha advantage of using tools that are available for both, is that if you get to switch you don't need to learn any new software, you just use the other system version.
Install Ubuntu (or any distro you prefer) and then you have a myriad of code editors to choose from.
Both work fine on OS X - personally I prefer Carbon Emacs, but that's mainly because it's closer to the Emacsen I use on other OSs.
I love my Mac, like that's slick, battery last pretty long, OSX is pretty stable.
I'd say that, for PHP coding (and any other type of coding that's not Mac-specific), a PC + Linux is a much better and cheaper alternative.
Transmit - Integrates into Textmate - SFTP please...forget about FTP
The only thing you have to do is look for a Linux-friendly laptop/PC (use sites such as http://www.linlap.com/) and then you're all set.
And you can run windows, if you need something Mac doesn't have.
Specially considering you are looking for Web Dev.
Aquamacs is more Mac-like whereas Carbon Emacs is more, well Emacs-ish.
You could let a little Emacs in your life either with Aquamacs or Carbon Emacs.
I've been using this combo for quite a while now and things have been smooth.
Throw in a few third party free bundles and you've got a nice IDE.
Textmate - All the key combos you could ask for, code completion and more.
You've got the hardcore vi(m) and emacs, the lightweight but not-featureful gedit, the lightweight but pretty feature packed geany and other, bigger editors such as Aptana Studio, Eclipse, Anjuta DevStudio, Bluefish to name a few.
Most of these will support FTP file editing thanks to GVFS (Gnome Virtual File System) which basically allows you to browse, view and edit remote files as if they were on your own PC, and a lot of protocols are supported (FTP and SFTP/SSH included).