It reminded me of this blog post from Scott Hanselman: "Stop saying learning to code is easy."
Try a little visual programming first, using hour of code programs, or a language like Python, which will teach good practice (indentation, etc) and remove worries like memory control, which make it harder for new learners.
There's great satisfaction that comes with the staying power of a working computer program.
While an actual career in the field would most likely involve programming using code instead of blocks, I think showing her what she can build using a block-based language could help her realize how approachable the field can be.
Well, I know that starting out it is encouraging to do something simple that still has use.
I tell my students often that programming is difficult, frustrating, annoying, and challenging.
It's always good to have a buddy in what you're doing =)
I particularly enjoy Codecademy's course - problems with instructions.
And remind her that you'll be willing to help when you have time, and so will people on sites like stack exchange (Codecademy also has a forum, though I haven't really used it).
Think of something you saw/did when you were starting out that inspired you.
The classic hello world program in Python is literally print("Hello world!").
Please give her warning though that while there are easy things in programming, there is also a difficult side.
I remember during my undergrad when one of my professors all of a sudden one day wrote a program that output itself.
You can actually use the fruit of your labor when learning programming.
I would recommend trying to set your friend up with an easy to read language like vb.net and helping them through some simple programs that can show them the uses of programming (a personal favorite is an interest calculator with textboxes to put in the principal amount and interest rate).
And when in doubt about where to start, choose this: CS50 Week 0 Lecture - Fall 2016.
From there, maybe go to things like adding, or using variables.
When you rock an essay in English, say, you feel good, but the chances of you coming back to your excellent analysis of Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter over and over again are quite slim.
You can help her when she gets stuck, and encourage her.
What are your friend's major worries about coding?
However, I also explain that there is a reward to programming that is unlike that of any other discipline I've experienced.
First, try setting up some sort of "coding hangout time" - you and her can practice coding together.
Just keep in mind what Heather said above in her first point: don't let your friend make this a solo effort.
Yet, if you write a cool program, especially one that it is an original idea, chances are you will revisit it, expand it, and/or play with it often.
Don't tell her she can code, show her she can code.
Guide her along this journey (should she choose to make it).
If your friend is like you, she might be inspired by similar things to you, and the personal approach coming from you, not from a website/book/whatever, is something that no website/book/whatever can do.
If it's just the difficulty, I would maybe show her something drag-and-drop such as App Inventor.
And if she shows interest but seems discouraged by the prospect of the challenging side, point out that there are sites like Stack Overflow where there are others who've probably dealt with the problem who are willing to help.
(I say that with all the affection of a former English teacher.)
The entire post is relevant for this topic, but I'll just excerpt this paragraph: