Or merely that any remote access client capable of conencting to MS-Windows systems?
One disadvantage of their system is, that they supporting their application for distance users only to use over Remote Deskotp Connection.
I know a lot of pros an cons of using RDS, but I do not know is that way for connecting is obsolete.
Should I accept RDC as way of communicating distance clients with Main server?
I think for remote working RDP is a fantasic tool.
Data handling is about 40 vs 60 % widespread between these two offices.
With the purpose of helping you find a solution how else would you suggest remote workers access systems in the office?
There are a lot of different products out there (VNC, NomachineNX, Citrix et al).
Do you really mean that RDP is the only product they support?
I think you will find it very difficult to migrate away from RDP whilst keeping costs down.
My guess is at some point they will do this anyway.
You could look at moving into Citrix enviroments but would the cost be worth it?
I stopped buying / developing thick client software 15 years ago.
vpn or web based apps are more common alternatives.
We are planing to invest in new software for our factory.
One of our partner whit the highest chance for getting job, have pretty good application, most of things are looks good.
If you look at newish MS technology like TSRemoteApp it uses RDP.
When now is Client - Server applications is something that all We accepting when buying something new
People still sell AS/400 based green screen apps and get new business with them (although typically these also have a screen scraping layer with a web interface so the comparison isn't totally like for like).
If the RDP based app is fit for purpose and your infrastructure has the bandwidth to handle it then the rich client interface shouldn't be a show stopper.
RDP uses more bandwidth than most apps would send so there has to be some compelling reason to be running the app on that remote machine,  Eg.
Targeting application is standard users application for handling data of goods (bills, finances, accounting management, goods, simple manufacturing with human inputs of data).
Our factory (storehouse, production and few operates) and We (administration, head office) are separated by 1mb DSL line.
Find out if the vendor have any plans to make a web enabled version.
Unless you really have a requirement for a browser, such as a web based business process orchestration engine or a requirement to access the application from any browser-equipped computer in the world, you don't actually need a browser based interface.
User interface technologies go in and out of fashion, so RDP is just another user interface technology.
I have experience with Remote Desktop Server with more than 3 years but for me that era is over.