Domain controllers can be hard enough to troubleshoot at the best of times, couple that with added services and your really asking for a PITA
I wouldn't put FTP on anything but a contained VM since is is old, and just plain terrible.
Some things may not be such a big deal - yes, IDEALLY you'd have a separate DHCP server (two for redundancy) and separate DNS servers and separate... you get the idea... but it's not uncommon and rarely an issue for a DC to also run DHCP and DNS.
Combining Exchange, SQL, AD, and IIS could have a huge impact.
In years past I've had to deal with the odd compromised member server.
Some of the services you listed are big no no's, and whilst a DC is usually a pretty underutilized system in anything but the larger enterprises, it's still one of the most important boxes in the company
Rainbow tables are clearly in use, as I saw the timestamps between the hash extract and the clear-text version of the passwords differ by all of 15 minutes.
What you combine depends on how much their combination will likely affect you.
One of the first things the attacker-bot toolkits do is suck the local password hashes.
Is here is nice bulleted list of why not to put Exchange 2003 (Mail) on the DC.
As I touched on earlier, VMs are great, but they still live on on server that becomes the single point of failure (unless you properly cluster them over a redundant SAN... but then your costs easily move into the 5 figure range... maybe more.
It IS a supported configuration, but generally not a "Best Practices" configuration.
It's easy for PHBs to want the underutilized system to be more value for money, but a DC is a DC, and it should stay as one
a DC requires a windows license, well, both of them do, you do have at least two right?
As for putting Exchange on a DC - in general, it is recommended you do not.
are you trying to maximize use of hardware or minimize software licensing costs?
Once someone exploits a layered product / application vulnerability they have access to your AD files which is a bit more than slightly less than desirable.
Aside from security, one of the reasons you want one function per server is to ensure the business doesn't have unnecessary interruptions - that is, if you have to reboot the file server, why should you also have to reboot the exchange server?
A compromise like that on a domain controller will give the attackers the entire AD hash list.
Virtual machines are great, but they still require licenses.
THAT is a statistic you can take to the higher-ups in defense of keeping everything but DC/DNS (and maybe WINS if you need it) off of your domain controllers.
With Microsofts datacenter edition licensing benefits when used on virtual systems, you can really cut down on licensing costs too given the right circumstances
But having separate servers for each function can be excessively costly, especially for smaller businesses.
if it's a hardware utilization issue, you should really look into virtualization, DCs are prime candidates for virtualization, and you could easily handle the load of most DCs and additional services on a handful of virtualization hosts
Combining DHCP, DNS, and AD will likely have little to no impact.
Unless you completely disabled LM password hashes several years ago, this will completely compromise any password under 14 (or 16, can't remember which) characters in length.