usually bootcamp partition looks like last with BOOTCAMP name on it.
In this case the disk the image was taken from has a matching partition structure to the disk you are restoring the image to.
It can be done in the already installed system, with minimal effort and time.
This would, as it is a raw disk image, require 70gb of space.
http://www.gilsmethod.com/how-to-mount-vhd-files-without-virtual-pc
You are forced to have the whole disk formatted and repartitioned to match the partition structure of the disk the image was made from.
This is all assuming that the VHD disk is an image of just the W7 partition, and has the bootsector/etc intact.
Here you have the option to select format the whole disk and repartition or not.
Replacing disk0s2 with the path to the partition device node.
This can occur when restoring an image to a new disk or the original disk with a modified partition structure.
(You would obviously have to install qemu on the osx side)
Obviously, these commands would have to be run on the OSX side.
This is not the most direct approach, and would be inconvenient, but would probably be the safest.
Install fresh copy of windows 7 to partition what you created.
This, of the solutions I have seen, is the easiest.
Then, use a different imaging suite (with the capability to restore to a particular partition) to create an image of that, then using that, restore to your original machine.
try to use virtualbox (virtualbox.org) or this method to access your files:
Data on other partitions on the disk you are restoring to will be lost.
When restoring from the VHD image, yes it will say that the entire disk will be formatted but in reality it will only write to the bootcamp partition and leave the mac osx partition untouched (and for me the partition still stayed as Mac OSX Extended)
I would recommend that you restore the VHD to a different computer hard drive - either an external drive, a spare one you may have lying around, a different computer if you have one you don't care about — anywhere you can.
I just did a downgrade from Lion to Snow Leopard with a Bootcamp installation, and restored the bootcamp partition with the default Windows 8 system image backup tool (It's the same as Windows 7)
A simple solution would be to convert the vhd disk to a raw disk file, (which would take up 70gb) then 'dd' it to the given partition.
Just make sure to setup a Bootcamp partition within Mac OSX before restoring
http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/675-system-image-recovery.html
qemu-img, which is part of QEMU, can handle the conversion.
This will occur if you are restoring Windows from a partition on the same disk.
By not selecting the format and repartition option your image will be restored and other partitions untouched such as valuable data partitions.
The only thing you would have to install is qemu (which provides qemu-image iirc), which you can get through macports/brew/fink.
You can find the partition device node name in Disk Utility.
You are not given the option to format and repartition the disk.
Next time use winclone free software to change win bootcamp partition