Do not do this with a huge list of 1000s of objects.
Only stored procedure names that don't already exist in the table are inserted.
Given that the DMV's aren't really the intensive, even hourly if you like.
We have client specific data for clients we no longer have, becasue we are in a regulated industry and are occasionally asked to provide data to auditors and regulators and lawyers.
Tables with no data are another set of obvious ones at this point.
Once you've compiled enough data you can make your decisions.
After n days collect the generated traces and aggregate the usage.
Using sp_trace_generateevent is fairly benign and does not affect the procedure execution flow/result/outcome.
One of my clients has this exact same problem, but it's the worst instance of it I've ever seen.
Now once you have the list of potentials to eliminate, you will probaly see some fairly obvious ones like  usp_my_proc_Old (when you have a USP_My_proc in the db).
Suppose you recently replaced the functionality for storing survey results with a new design.
Next create a server side trace and capture event 82 (the first user_event).
As others have mentioned, going through quarterly/annual business cycles is highly recommended.
Create a job that runs periodically that uses them to capture the information that you want -- run it twice a day if your data is falling off in 24 hours.
You can eliminate any proc that will not run especially if one of the tables it references no longer exists.
Make sure every job on the prod server has an equivalent job on your test server and run them.
If a table has a datefield, are there any recent dates?
I know no simple way to identify what isn't being used.
Be aware of course that a trace will have a performance hit so ensure this hit doesn't cause operational issues.
However, you can move these tables to another archive db if you want to clean out your actual production database.
It does not turn a read-only procedure into a data-write one, with all the logging and locking implications.
Most importantly it has no interaction with the current transaction.
If there is no trace monitoring event 82 the exec call is basically free (no-op).
If you can modify the procedures, add a line at the begining of each (this is fairly easy to automate):
Some rogue developer generated thousands of stored procedures (over 6k), most of which are not used.
For extra credit you can also inspect the traces periodically and remove exec call from any procedures you find there, since is proven to be called.
The problem isn't that DMV's are unreliable, it's that they don't capture the information that you want.
If the last time the data field was populated witha  date was 2008, that is a good candidates for a table we don't need anymore.
Send out no more than 10-20 at a time and try to group them so they are clearly on related topics.
Tables/procs that clearly refer to a functionality you know has been eliminated would be the next ones.
For potentials to eliminate, you can add a logging process to the proc or a logging trigger to the table and set a date when the object will be eliminated if there are no entries by that date.
Knowing what has been called recently only helps for frequently called things and many objects in a complex database are not called that often but are still needed.
YoOu can create a list of potentials for eliminating from there.
You may want to keep the table (You may need the data) but the procs that call that table are probably all out of date and can go.
They now poll sys.dm_exec_cached_plans every 5 minutes, and insert into a table for tracking.
Depending on your legal constraints, you may not want to eliminate any table with data.
(if you have a formal QA, a good set of regression tests would help this).
Make sure your trace writes into a disk with sufficient space and enough IO bandwith.
Your list of active tables should include only those  mentioned in one of the procs and tables you know you need like audit tables.
Once you have a list of several potential objects to delete, then send the list around to all of your developers and ask them if they use the table/proc or know what it was for.
What I would do is start up Profiler on my dev or qa box and then take every application that hits it and run through the functionality.
By now your list of potential sps is much smaller.
Now at least you know what procs the applications call and can eliminate them from the list.