If you have operating system space monitoring, then autoextend could work for you.
The SYSTEM tablespace always contains the data dictionary tables for the entire database.
The SYSTEM and SYSAUX tablespaces are reuqired by the RDBMS to function correctly.
You always have the option of sqlplus / or sqlplus /nolog if sysaux runs out of space.
SYSAUX and SYSTEM are no different to any other tablespace in that they need to sized right.
In my experience, space pressure in SYSAUX is pretty much always down to AWR data.
Reference: Database Components and the SYSAUX Tablespace
Your db is never 'critical' when you are about to run out of space.
The largest portion of the SYSAUX tablespace is occupied by the Automatic Workload Repository (AWR).
The SYSAUX table is home for the following components:
There are known issues with AWR retention/purge settings not playing nice (e.g doc 1912201.1)
This query will help you to track what is in sysaux.
Do not wait until 95% or higher to act upon adding space.
If you can reduce the size of the data being stored by the components, then you can reduce the size of the required SYSAUX tablespace.
A list of objects that reside in the SYSAUX tablespace can be retrieved using the V$SYSAUX_OCCUPANTS view.
There are certain tables in SYSTEM and SYSAUX tablespaces that store historical query data, AWR snapshot and audit information, which can be deleted/truncated.
If your database has been constantly growing, or if you are monitoring a lot of objects with Enterprise Management Console, then your SYSAUX tablespace will slowly fill up.
The following size recommendations are provided by Oracle to determine the AWR size and to a large portion the size of the SYSAUX tablespace:
So if your database grows in size due to new objects, then your SYSTEM tablespace will require more space too.
You should look specifically at the sys.aud$ table.
You may also want to query dba_segments filtering by table space name, looking for the largest object.
One option is to use the autoextensible feature of the datafiles of your tablespaces.
If you need to keep auditing records, back it up before truncating.
First of all check which table is taking the most space in those tablespace.
If you are not sure or concerned if deletion of records in a table would affect something else, then just add extra space in those tablespaces.
Reference: Controlling the Size of the SYSAUX Tablespace
but be careful of using this feature, as buggy software can use up your allocated space quickly.
You can also set resumable_timeout parameter so that sessions waiting for space wait for you to add space and do not end abnormally.
You can also use the space monitoring features of OEM to send you a notification when your tablespaces reach a certain percentage, for example 80%.