The default value for send_timeout was 600s, with Varnish 3.0 it was changed to 60s.
Could anyone give any idea as to why it is happening and how to fix the problem.
In case of Debian/Ubuntu yo may want to edit /etc/default/varnish.
The internet connection was around 512 kbps and so it was not dial up level speed too but decent speed where files should easily download though not that fast.
I would at first like to thank everyone at serverfault for this great website and I also come to this site while searching in google for various server related issues and setups.
This may intefere with downloads taking longer than 60s.
http://mywebsite.com:8008/directory/filename.extension
Does anybody have any idea as to why it is happening and how can it be fixed.
I was checking from a 5mbps + broadband connection and the file downloads were also completed in seconds and working fine.
The website looked fine in the last few days after I setup.
When I tried to download the files from the website using a browser then it broke off after a minute or so.
You can check the value of the send_timeout parameter with varnishadm:
But then on adding the apache port in the static file download url, the files got downloaded easily and did not break even once.
I cannot be sure it is due to the time or size though and I am just assuming.
Then the file download does not break at all and it gets download fine.
Apache backend set on port 8008, Varnish frontend set on port 80
I also have an issue today and so I am posting here and hope that the seniors would help me out.
It kept on happening again and again and so it had nothing to do with the internet connection.
Then the download breaks off after a minute or so.
Then I thought of trying out with the apache backend port and used the port number to check out if the problem occurs.
There are several static file downloads of around 10-20 MB in size in the website.
So, it seems that varnish is somehow creating the file download breaking and not apache.
So, it seems Varnish has somehow resulted in the broken file downloads.
To make this setting persistent, you have to add "-p sendtimeout 600" to the startup parameters of Varnish.
I tried it several times to make sure that it was not a coincidence but every time I was using the apache port in the file download url then it was downloading fine while it was breaking each time with the normal link which was routed through Varnish I suppose.
But today I realized that on a slow internet connection the file downloads were breaking off.
I had setup a website on a dedicated server a few days ago and I used Varnish 3 as the frontend to Apache2 on a Debian Lenny server as the traffic was a bit high.