The use of a guest account reduces the risk but does not prevent it.
That's a bit of a doe eyed belief mostly because of the concept of a zero-day / unpatched threat.
Now... if the user has physical access to the machine, all bets are off, but that's another topic altogether.
It has been argued at times that if the machine is nuked and re-imaged after each use there is no requirement for AV software.
So while you are theoretically safe, I wouldn't count on it.
It still has access to the whole of the machine - admittedly with reduced access rights, but still access.
Nuking the machine afterwards in such a case makes no difference.
http://www.microsoft.com/security/sir/story/default.aspx#!10year
For any other situation AV software is an absolute requirement on a Windows PC or server.
The machine could be infected while it is in use and spread that infection to other systems.
Just posting this as a real life example of where this mode of thinking could be caught out.
If the computer is freestanding and has absolutely no contact with any other system in any way whatsoever, including the inability to use removable media, then it would be safe to not have AV software.
Privilege escalation attacks do exist and can be used to escalate an underprivileged account to admin rights.
That's not common, and certainly you'll be protected against an edge case scenario, however the potential exists that even with a underprivileged account, there can be an exploit that exists.
While many infections come through the actions of privileged users, there are plenty of sources of potential infections (attack vectors) that eliminating privilege doesn't solve.
A guest account is not the same as a sandboxed account.
Conficker brute forced admin accounts, often got in using the local Administrator account that was often unsecured on XP installs, and exploited vulnerabilies in the Server service.
If you have guest accounts, plus anti-virus, plus other checks and balances, you can be reasonable in thinking that a machine will not be compromised.
This report from Microsoft lays out a lot of information about malware sources, and more for the past 10 years.
For instance, this RDP bug from last month is a remote execution nasty that could infect regardless of the user type: http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/bulletin/ms12-020
This is one of the myths we absolutely have to stop, as it does so much damage and is the cause of so many infected systems that it does nothing but create more work for those of us who get to clean up the mess.