It seems that the common SATA-USB interfaces report disk parameters in a way different from a direct SATA interface, and Windows interprets this as unreadable.
If something like the MBR is corrupted, what most OSes do is both the safest and most dangerous: "I don't know how to read this.
C - try hooking up c thru USB and hope it does not infect, this drive has some of the data i need on it.
I vaguely recall trying one that did work once, but don't remember which one it was.
But, the drive worked perfectly when I attached it on the desktop-PCs SATA interface again.
That way, if one program screws up and causes more damage (either automatically or at your direction), you can start over with another.
In my experience, RAW was reported by Windows7 on a SATA-Harddisk that I took from a desktop PC and mounted in an external SATA-USB case, as a temporary way to access the data.
C - it did read this one, but the drive sounded like it was trying to boot, which is fine on that system, old and corrupt anyway.
They can also do searches to find fragments of file structures.
So in this case, nothing is corrupted, nothing needs to be recovered.
If you want to access the disk with a direct-SATA interface again, do not use any tool that 'repairs the partition table' or the like.
Good recovery software can make assumptions, like: "The partition table is empty, but if this whole drive was partitioned as NTFS, where would the file structures be?"
F - hook up as it was before to sata connection, (not sure if it was corrupted by virus, and if it is will it infect the new system)
F - treid it but it is coming up as file system RAW.
Your best bet is to try some NTFS recovery software.
Doing so might recover some or even all your data.
Win7 system, using USB connection(safer then direct connect sata, i think)
I was copying it off to F hoping to just clean and get the data off of it, sine C's MBR is currupted.
If physical damage (sectors going bad) is not an issue, the safest thing would be to make a block-level copy of the drives, and then have the recovery software work on the copies.
Would it be safe to reconnect F back to the sata connection(not the USB one)?
This all started wiht a rootkit virus, got a new hard drive, reloading everything.