Other people have posted several good answers, but one that's missing so far is the main reason that, whilst I run Fedora on my desktops, I run CentOS on my servers, and that's a very long support lifetime.
Usually Enterprise editions don't hung/reboot/crash without serious reason.
RAID controller vendor when you face troubles on "non-Enterprise" distros.
That at least explains Redhat and SuSE, with their free variants getting some of the benefits by virtue of being derivative.
Tools that are not available on the free versions of the operating systems that allow for easier management of large install bases.
Also - often "easy" installation, a lot of packets comes for the price of stability.
Upgrading server OSes every seven years is fine; the hardware is usually being retired by that point.
CentOS follows Red Hat's model, which means four years of active support, two further years of bedded-in support, and one years after that of security-only support.
Easier for the end user is not always easier for the administrators.
Enterprise grade Operating system gives you following, which is not found in non-enterprise class servers:
There is also a bit of a "traditional" way of thinking in installing Redhat, it's been the major player in enterprise linux for so long and one could easily some it up as "No one has gotten fired for buying redhat."
Stable tools with predictable release cycles is often preferred over cutting edge when it comes to thousands upon thousands of servers.
That means I'll have to upgrade the OS once a year, and for a server, that's vastly too frequent.
Also bare in mind that "frequently updated" is not always a good thing for large enterprise installations as it means a tremendous amount of QA.
I would add - hardware support (not only the drivers or procudents soft).
Third party software support typically only supports the large commercial distros, like Redhat and SuSE (and by proxy their derivatives).
An enterprise distro will commit to a very long, stable lifetime, and that's exactly what I want on a server.
Fedora comes out every six months, and release n is supported until shortly after the release of n+2.
Established support, in the case of SuSE and Redhat.