If that's the case, how do you manage users' home printing?
This happens when she tries to do this wirelessly or via a USB port to tes.
When my user tries it at home, though, she isn't able to get any farther than a UAC prompt.
I've ran into an issue like this before with a domain user trying to install a print device, software, or anything in general.
I make the changes to the two printer classes in Group Policy.
From my experience with printers I have noticed that the user requires admin rights to install the printer and to change its settings.
To avoid needing admin rights, I had to set the driver GPO to NOT look for updated drivers on Windows update.
The USB port method would not work unless you also included the USB device class, {88BAE032-5A81-49f0-BC3D-A4FF138216D6}
If my solution is just to add a Device Class, how do I find out what Device Class a peripheral is identifying itself?
What am I doing wrong for laptops accessing home printers?
Using a laptop with the same GPO, I was able to get my home USB printer to connect (using my normal user privs, no elevation).
If there is a way for me to determine what Device Class that printer is asking for, I suspect I could just add the GUIDs to the GPO, but I don't know how to determine that.
Is this not a best practice at all to let users install printers on work laptops?
I didn't resolve this through GPO but instead through user account management locally in Control Panel.
Every time she tries to connect, it asks for admin privileges to install the driver.
http://theintegrity.co.uk/2010/08/allow-users-to-install-local-printers-on-windows-7-using-group-policy/
I found in our environment we also had to mess with the point and print restrictions.
I allow all device drivers to be installed (using a GPO).
Under Manage User Accounts in the User Accounts tab in Control Panel, after adding both the users domain account and their corresponding local account in the list of users granted access to the machines (in their respective group), and then rebooting, I was able to eliminate the prompts for admin privileges for these processes.
My theory is that I need to add another device type.
I've ensured that the GPO has been applied to the laptop.
End-user is trying to print at home to her wireless printer, a LaserJet Pro M1217nfw.
Without that change, my users weren't to get any farther than a UAC prompt on the domain or off.