2TB of size the time for recovery can become very huge and the probability of failure in the period of recovery increase a lot.
If it's a bad batch, this can mean reduced lifespans, reduced reliability, or even multiple drives failing within a short time period.
It's a recommended practice when building an array to split the order up over several vendors, or to ask a single vendor to send you disks from different batches if possible.
This is the primary reason RAID5 is not suitable for larger disk sizes.
You must also consider that when people assemble disk arrays, they usually order the disks from a single vendor.
With RAID6 you can recover from failure of two disks, but with raise of the size of disks 6 reach the same problem.
I thought the article gave the proper insight on a basic level.
I think the point was if you are concerned about a URE for a 12TB array because a spec says you will have 1 URE for every 12TB, then you need an extra redundant disk for every additional 12TB in size to handle all the URE's you should expect to encounter.
That is RAID 5 rebuild of 12TB has same chance of failure (per a 10^14 URE rate) as a RAID 6 24TB array.
This way the drives are more likely to die at different times, and you're unlikely to get multiple drives from a bad batch.
You can upgrade the drive sizes in your array just by replacing one drive at a time and waiting for the rebuilds to complete, for example.
This means that all the disks in the array will be from the same manufacturing batch.
The disk may be OK, but the data cannot be read preventing rebuild which is the same in the end as a failed disk in terms of a rebuild.
Even if it's not a bad batch, if the drives begin reaching the end of their lifespan, there's an increased chance that multiple drives will fail within a short time of each other.
Remember that while the array is being rebuilt the disks are operating at a 100% load, and given the size of modern disks the rebuild can take days.
The UBE reasoning outlined in the other answers is fine enough, but a greater concern is the risk of a second drive failure during the rebuild.
Unless the disks are enterprise grade, they're not really going to like this.
Synology has something called SynologyHybrid Raid, which has some really nice benefits.