However, from the energy report you posted, it seems only S1 and S4 sleep states are available on your system.
Bear in mind that this was very shortly after I installed windows 10 from scratch for the first time.
Windows 8.x and 10 use hybrid sleep also for shutdown (at start it partially de-hibernate and partially boot system).
Per @harrymc, it look like this may unfortunately be the case for your system, barring a BIOS update which changes this capability.
Windows Updates: Check and update your system, make sure that you don't have any pending.
When you are turning off your PC, Windows seems to think it is sending the PC to the S3 power state, but in fact your PC is going directly to fully off.
Drivers: I assume that you've downloaded and installed all required drivers.
In this case, I see it'll be better to re-check things, so we can resolve this issue.
If it's not even available, then you'll have to disable hybrid sleep in Windows.
The clincher is that when you boot next, Windows is looking for that stuff in RAM, but it can't find it - and the boot hangs.
Szczypel's answer will resolve the problem, but of course Hybrid Sleep exists in order to speed up the reloading of windows, so perhaps you want to keep it instead of disabling it.
The reason I doubt Szczypel's concern about the possibility of a driver improperly initializing (definitely another possibility, but I think an unlikely one) is because you've just done a fresh install.
Enter BIOS, then check/modify the Advanced settings as listed below:
The S3 state saves the current system RAM state at shutdown and keeps power flowing to the DIMMs so that that state is preserved at next boot.
At one point I think that a Widows update was causing the issue because the problem would come back after a few days.
In that case, we need to understand what's happening here.
On the next boot, Windows 10 has been smart enough to see that it is booting from a full shutdown, and it just goes ahead and loads normally, pulling everything it needs directly from your SSD.
I was able to fix it by using a windows recovery disk and running the "Startup Repair" feature.
http://www.softwareok.com/?seite=faq-Windows-10&faq=42
After 4 instances of me running the startup repair and I finally got completely current with my windows updates and the problem went away.
It's actually pretty amazing to me how long it's lasting in your PC before it clears, but I'm fairly sure that's what the behavior must indicate.
There are not likely very many dodgy drivers on your system yet, so I wouldn't look to that as the first probable source of the trouble.
Probably something are not correctly initialised after that type of resume.
Chances are this issue can be resolved by checking your motherboard's BIOS and making sure that the S3 power state is available and enabled.
The reason it works if you turn your PC on after just a little time has passed is because the data hasn't yet cleared the RAM.
So, try to follow these steps to check settings first.
(Make sure that you do not have any unknown devices using Devices Manager.)
You either don't have S3 or S3 isn't enabled, so instead charge is allowed to drain from the RAM, which means that it loses the data stored in it over time.
Even the motherboard drivers are for Vista and XP.
You're using a newer SSD & OS with an old system that doesn't fully support them.
So, this is another issue (which may be solved in most cases).
IF NOT, you need to use Driver Solutions or Driver Booster and Install & update all drivers.
I would try making sure you are completely up to date and then trying the startup repair if you have problems, if for no other reason, do it to rule some stuff out.
You could use S4 (hibernate) but not a %100 sure that will work flawlessly with your system.