But of course, someone could have copied the look and feel to another server.
So, despite ignoring the warning, in this case you downloaded from the expected server.
Luckily, in your case you can tell both domains refer to the very same server, (today) using IP address 63.245.216.132 for IPv4:
So, unless trust of both DNS and the certificate were somehow compromised: if a server tells your browser that it is known as addons.mozilla.org, then such is true.
When going to https://addons.mozilla.org you'll see it looks the same.
In case of Mozilla, it's even an Extended Validation Certificate, so trust is high.)
But I guess you just used an old domain, and Mozilla is expecting everyone to use the new one, and hence did not bother getting the old domain into the certificate as well.
Your download was taken from the very same server, owned by the Mozilla Foundation.
In your case, the server you downloaded from is known as addons.mozilla.org, and mozilla.org is owned by the Mozilla Foundation.
Without that secret part, another website cannot use someone else's certificate.
And most importantly: website owners know they should keep the secret parts of their certificates very secure.
Now, Mozilla could have bought a certificate that lists both domains as being valid for that single server (using the so-called Subject Alternative Name).
For better trust, the certificate authority should have asked for some proof that the domain(s) are indeed owned by the buyer.
Certificates are all based on trust: you trust your browser, your browser trusts a few "certificate authorities", and those sell certificates to website owners.
So, en-us.add-ons.mozilla.com cannot show a certificate that says it's addons.mozilla.org, unless the secrets were compromised, or unless the two websites simply have the same owner or even refer to the very same server.
(If they don't, then if someone is able to mess with DNS servers and could buy a certificate for a domain they don't really own, then they might fool your browser into accepting that without any warning.
Web servers can respond to multiple domains with the very same content.