This wait type is usually caused when you have queries performing huge scans.
Like I said, checking your indexes and statistics and analyzing your query plans are probably the best way to go about reducing your waits in this case.
OLEDB waits indicate that your query has to reach out somewhere remotely, usually a linked server.
This will break down your SP into pieces and you can sort by one of the elapsed_time, logical_reads columns, or total_worker (cpu) columns to decide what specific commands you want to work on first.
Based on your comment about the "unwieldy" SP I'd almost guarantee that is at least part of your problem.
By breaking it down like this you can start picking off the low hanging fruit and speed the over all SP a bit at a time.
Obviously, you're going to want to focus on SOS_SCHEDULER_YIELD.
Your culprit is likely to be some application pulling data row-by-row instead of pulling the entire result set at once.
If you're seeing performance issues with this, consider figuring out if there are performance issues on the remote server or making some attempt to bring that data local (replication, etc.
I'd suggest checking to make sure you have the proper indexes in place and you don't have any out-of-date statistics resulting in an inefficient query plan.
This one signals that SQL Server is waiting for a go-ahead to send data across the network.
For example it will help to reduce the speed of a query that's being run a dozen times in the SP, it will help even more if you can figure out a way to run it only once (personal recent experience).
Try running the following query replacing DBName and SPName as appropriate.
You can find more info about all of these in this wonderful post by Paul Randal and more in-depth information about SOS_SCHEDULER_YIELD in this wonderful post also by Paul Randal.
Now to be fair this doesn't answer your original question and it is more meant as a response to the comment and a helpful way to deal with a "problem" sp.
This doesn't of course take the place of reviewing the whole thing at once.