I've encountered this attitude more than I'd like to see in my professinal consulting career.
Find some data that's important to them but isn't backed up and move it then wait and see what the reaction is.
This is a discussion that requires business leadership involvement, including risk management if you have it.
I've had a few departments whose first hint of "getting it" has been when they've been stood at the end of my desk with a smoking laptop asking if there's any way I can get the data back off it.
Prep for the meeting by documenting your backup service..some things to consider:
In the final analysis, it is THEIR decision afterall good or bad.
There is a point where all you can do is have a policy in place that states what will be backed up, when it will be backed up, and who's responsibility it is to put data in that location, beyond that you have to assume users will take a little responsibility - which some won't, but there's always a hardcore who expect you to literally think for them.
During the project (it's going to be one), document everything.
I was also amazed by the point that a significant website book author who was partial owner would allow this situation to happen and continue.
It was just fascinating just how fast this company changed their minds once their primary system got a hardware glitch (non-disk).
I have noticed at my place of work that there is an attitude that backups are not very important (certainly, development/testing happens before any form of backup strategy is in place).
Hopefully they will listen and decide the right things to do.
What happened in one case, was with a startup with everything on one machine including a couple of Oracle databases, no backups and not wanting to send the time and effort in generating such.
Because the rest of my team are not system admins/lack system admin knowledge like me, backups/disaster recovery considerations are talked about but don't get implemented.
A good way to start the discussion is by providing an executive summary of the backup services you're providing now and asking for their involvement in determing if the service meets operational and legal requirements.
Usually people don't want to sign up and begin to think.
Document the business needs, document the technical implementation, write a service level agreement and get business leadership sign off upon implementation.
Furthermore, an honest assesment often times brings just the right amount of reality for executive leadership to realize a.)
Be honest with where the service stands now no matter how it might reflect on the professionalism of IT or the inattenion of business leadership to the topic.
It's important it gets done right and good business leadership will hopefully recognize this and appreciate the fact your trying to bring a transparent level of management to the process.
About all you can do is attempt to educate the client as to why its important.
If you want them to change their mind, force them to sign same paper where you inform them that they should backup and that you are not responsible in case of disaster.
There is an attitude that because nothing has gone wrong (but an overlooked thing is accidental deletion), then we don't need to worry too much about backups.