Does anyone have a feel for what percentage of traffic will switch within the defined TTL these days?
In other words, 95% of the traffic moved within the 15-minute TTL that we defined.
But some were still hitting the old IPs for weeks.
When we did the swing over most customers started hitting the new IPs right away.
Seems like, overall, TTL should be well-respected.
Are there still many nameservers out there that ignore TTL?
Eventually we went through the IIS logs on the old machine and called the customers telling them to flush DNS on there company or ISP DNS servers.
Some years ago I had to do several DNS changes over the course of several weeks as I moved bits of equipment from one data center to the other.
It was a small number of people that kept with the old IPs.
We moved recently and had all sorts of problems with DNS.
This was in about 2001, though, and we were using dinosaurs to transmit packets through the tubes.
They have a captcha that made me "click on all squares with signs" 3 times, so it took 1-2 min before I could complete the flush.
The same was reported by every friend I could ask to check, both via landline and mobile.
Another 3% made it in the first hour, 1% in the first day, and a few stragglers took up to three days.
Google and OpenDNS allow you manually flush their DNS cache for a particular domain.
Before the experiments below I had previously changed my TTL from 14400 (seconds = 4 hours) to 300 (seconds = 5 minutes) but I did that 2 hours before the experiments and since the previous TTL was 4 hours I'm not sure my change would have gotten out if DNS servers didnt have their own minimum TTL.
I recently moved DNS for a few domains that host my personal site and project sites from GoDaddy to in-house DNS (yeah, literally my house).
I changed a name-to-IP translation (A record) in the authoritative server then checked:
Old question, but new answers (2017, 6 years later):
After 4 minutes, only 1 DNS server checked by those sites had the old IP address.
Out of 20k customers, maybe 50 had issues after the first day.
Cablevision/Optimum (at least in NJ) seems to be using Nominum CNS, which also respects TTLs.
At the time that I did this, about 95% of the nameservers in the world seemed to respect the TTL value, and about 5% ignored ours and made up their own.
However even without the Google flush, it appears propagation is in minutes, not hours or days.
The only problem, ironically, were the main caching DNS servers at $University where I work, which seemed to totally disregard TTL for cached queries (and even disregard the TTL value they were assigning to the cached result).
My guess is that today's nameservers are better-behaved, and there will be less of a problem with stragglers.
I updated another A-record, and then immediately flushed Google's DNS cache.
Overall, every site that I have remote access to respected the TTL and made the transition well.
56% of servers authoritative for .com and .net domains are running BIND, which obviously plays well with the standards.
(Yes, OK, I'm confusing percentage of traffic with percentage of nameservers.
So clearing Google's DNS cache, and forcing it to re-query the authoritative server, appears to have sped up global DNS propagation, perhaps by triggering cache updates throughout the world's servers.
After 5 minutes (300 seconds) about half of the global servers checked by those sites had been udpated.