Supportability is important, almost more important than the quality of the software itself.
WIth this small amount of people hosted, I would go with eithe something hosted or.... a virtual Server (on my own cloud, that is, just not a physical machine).
Upgrading from Exchange 2007 to 2013, which I've just done for my employer, involved installing the two systems alongside each other and telling the new exchange servers to move our mailboxes from the old system to the new one then enjoying a refreshing drink of my choice while it finished the migration for me.
Exchange 2003 is ten years old, and there's been a lot of changes in the way both Exchange and the Windows platform both work in that time, and addressing all these at once greatly complicates the upgrade process and therefore the cost of upgrading.
(* - in these days of 'virtualise all the things' you can cut down on the number of server-shaped boxes you need to buy to do this migration by virtualising the new exchange servers, but you still need enough capacity in your virtual server host to run the two new versions of exchange side by side, so yeah, it's still a cost for you).
Part of the reason the upgrade is so costly is because you haven't kept up.
Do the upgrade now, while you have time to plan it and implement it properly - not when you've just found out that you can't buy a replacement motherboard.
You also face pain - Exchange 2003 upgrades will be hard.
Hardware failure IS a conccern - as is the age of the OS because finding drivers for a new server wont get easier with the OS being out of support.
However, there's no direct Exchange 2003 --> 2013 upgrade path, so at best you need to follow something like my process above to go from Exchange 2003 --> Exchange 2010 then again from 2010 --> 2013.
If you're worried about managing the future costs and not wanting to buy into the cost or complexity of upgrading a bit more often in the future then I'd suggest that TomTom's suggestion to go with managed Exchange hosting is a good idea.
Your support company are dead on right - it's all fine now, but the day that it starts randomly blue screening will be the start of a mass panic, with no one to turn to.
This means straight away that you've at least doubled the amount of work and hardware(*) required.
This is despite the fact that we have several thousand users and mailboxes and a fairly complicated Exchange configuration.
This isn't that difficult for someone with half-decent exchange knowledge and doesn't require too much in the way of fiddling around with hardware or anything like that.
30 users is right in the target audience for some of the deals Microsoft are offering for Office 365 these days.