If a single SSD fails, then there's high odds the SSD is at fault.
On the other hand, the measures you have taken seem to be very complete.
Alternatively, boot into Normal Mode and wait for your system to install Graphics drivers.
Also there were a problem concerning "Windows Automatic Driver installs" when users were installing drivers manually but system were updating it to versions up (to the buggy one).
meaning that some previous driver or setting is still in effect.
If it never crashes on any SSD, there's high odds that the RAID controller is a fault.
Also there were problems between NVIDIA graphics driver uptade service and windows drivers update service.
the generic Windows 10 drivers for as long as possible, and only install
If this comes back fine, I would recommend installing drivers that are recommended by Sony.
If nothing else, if you have the available hardware, I'd try doing the steps mentionned above while using the SSD's on a different device, to try and isolate the issue.
There is known problems between NVIDIA and Win10 x64 OS, causing instability occuring in the form of "random freezes".
Install only drivers that are absolutely required, staying with
For that uninstall your current driver and CUDA from system, clean the system with DDU (driver uninstaller utility).
Your disk seems OK, so the cause is probably software.
If you have the possibility of busting your RAID0, i would set every SSD in standalone, no RAID.
I would boot in the BIOS and see if you are able to run a hardware scan.
You can do this in the settings>update and security>recovery>reset this PC.
This operation is equivalent to upgrading Windows 19 to version 1903,
If everything works regardless of these steps, I'd try to set perhaps a RAID5, see how it behaves (obviously this point is moot if you only have 2 HDDs).
Then try the step which causes the freezes on each individual hard drive.
If that is the case, the only thing you can do is to use Linux (CUDA works there on both proprietary and free drivers) or roll back to Win 32bit.
It is possible that something went wrong when upgrading to Windows 10,
Enable Safe Boot option (press F8 to enable it just in boot sequence), then boot Windows and first check your video graphics drivers.
Repair Install of Windows 10 with an In-place Upgrade.
If the problem still occurs, the next step would be to install Windows 10
drivers downloaded from the manufacturer's website.
I recommend resetting all Windows components to a known state by doing