For starters, you already know that with the Windows Home Server, you get built-in media sharing and streaming via the built-in Windows Media Connect software.
In addition I would like to be able to make use of streaming media services to the tv's (eg youtube, iplayer, etc).
Did you know the Zune Software supports streaming music/video/pictures to Xbox 360's?
Have you tried XBox Media Center as PC/Notebook client, along with PS3 Media Server as a server ?
My current thought is using Zune on the 360's and laptops, with the addition of swapping current phones for windows phones to use zune on them as well.
You can take further advantage of that by buying cheaper media streamer boxes to attach to your other TVs, these will still allow you to watch films, etc that are on saved on your WHS but without the expense of having everything else that the Xbox does.
Whilst I like the 360's, having 6 in the house sounds excessive especially when they are for media streaming.
Main thing I'm struggling with is the independent favourites etc and consistent ui experience.
have personally never tried this, since I don't own an Xbox...Knowing Zune and Microsoft though, I'm sure this would work pretty well with tight integration...
Then I want to be able to share all the music and dvd's across all the devices.
I've searched the internet and specifically searched SuperUser, but can't find any good suggestions that meet all the requirements.
So all you have to do is go into Library and you should be able to find all the media on your server in there already, and everyone can create their own playlists, etc.
This would require adding more 360's though as mentioned earlier and also Zune Pass seems to support only 3 pc's and 3 devices, I'll need alot more than that.
They have a (free) Windows Home Server add-in that sits on your WHS finds all the music and indexes it with a nice web interface, there are then Squeezebox devices that you can put out in your house, each can play its own playlist of music from the server, they can either be stand-alone devices like the Squeezebox Boom or Radio, or plug into an existing hifi and speakers like the Squeezebox Touch or Duet.
Ideally looking for a consistent user experience across the devices as the user's aren't all overly tech savvy, especially my wife.
Network connections include a 40Mb (getting 37Mb) FTTC internet connection.
A friend of mine is using it for his setup, though to be noted it is slightly smaller in scale.
As for your other PCs/laptops (presuming that they're running WIndows) when you install the Windows Home Server connector software onto them they should add your WHS Music and Video shares into the library in Windows Media Player for you.
Hopefully you're taking advantage of this by filling the server's built-in Music share with your home's music collection, and putting all your films on the Video share.
Requirements include being able to watch the media on the tv's (currently acheived through xbox 360's but I need to add the ability to 3 more rooms which at the moment is looking like needing the purchase of 3 more 360's + something for the dining room ).
Hope that all makes sense, and if it does, any thoughts?
You don't say quite what media you want to stream into some rooms, but if you only want to stream music into a room, say the dining room, which I notice you don't have a TV in yet, then something like a Logitech Squeezebox music streaming device might be a good idea?
Here's a few pages with reviews of dedicated media streaming devices that can plug straight into your TV: Media Streamer reviews, or Which streaming media device is right for you?
Also be able to watch on the laptops and download to the phones for use on the go.
Can anyone suggest a good solution for sharing media resources in the home environment for a family of 5.
Each user should be able to have their own favourites, playlists and ratings independently of each other.
I'm guessing you already know this as it sounds like you're already using it to stream media to some of your TVs via your XBox 360.
What I'm looking for is a way to get all the music and dvd's onto the Windows Home Server, which I've already found software to do.