It has been years since I've used the Backup Exec agent, and it has possible they have added features like this, but from their site, it doesn't look like it.
Even with system backups, if you go from 10 tapes a week to 5, you are saving a lot of money in the long run.
The restore piece is great because of the brick-level options.
This server will see a moderate amount of usage during normal business hours and little-to-no usage outside of business hours.
There are also similar solutions besides LiteSpeed, but I haven't used them, so I can't comment on their relative worth.
I expect to have no more than 500GB of data that needs to be backed up on a regular basis.
HDDs and offshore servers are so cheap these days.
For close to a year now, I have been using Quest LiteSpeed for most production backups, instead of Native SQL backups, or direct-to-tape agents like Backup Exec.
If it is fine to lose a whole day, you could stick to full backups every night.
Time, money, sometimes bits of sanity are saved there.
On beefy hardware, compression does not pose too much of a burden, and backing up 200GB is faster than backing up 500Gb, no matter how you do it (YMMV, but my LS backups are consistently a quarter of the native backup size, or less).
Does anyone have any real-world experience using a RD1000 for nightly backups?
You can still use backup Exec too, but you won't need the SQL Agent, because you are just backing up the backup files.
Not really a tape or removable solution but we use transaction log shipping every 10 mins to a warm standby server, and when we did have a catastrophic failure one day, just pointed the connection string to the 2nd server and kept on trucking.
We have been deploying Red Gate SQL Backup for some servers of that size.
Instead of sticking with our normal Backup Exec & LTO Tape system that we've used for production servers in the past, I'm looking at alternatives for our new SQL 2005 server that will go live in about 2 months.
What kind of software and hardware are you guys using to backup a single SQL server?
In the past, we've done full SQL and system backups overnight to a tape library, alternating sets of tapes weekly.
Otherwise you may wanna do full backups every night and log shipping in short periods.
For the savings of the backup footprint alone, I have found it to be well worth the licensing cost.
What type of medium you choose is another question.
Having to restore a TB database to fix 5 records is a thing of the past, you can restore single objects or queries on objects to the destination of your choice.
I'd like to move away from storing 8-10 tapes per week to maybe a removable storage solution like the Dell RD1000.
Similarly, is Backup Exec still a decent choice or should I be looking elsewhere?
It seems to be significantly faster than Backup Exec for disk based backups and restores.
With this configuration, you can restore the last full backup and roll forward to a given point in time using the saved transaction logs.
The next thing it saved me is time, for both backups and restores.