The most common choice being the DC Bass Source one written by Milenko Mitrovic and that being the result of my prior research and suggestion to Milenko.
It even supports reading embedded Album Artwork from .m4a files - both AAC and Apple Lossless.
Media Foundation codecs take precedence over DirectShow filters and you therefore need to disable any potentially conflicting Media Foundation codec.
The suggested 'solution' is to rename your files to "mp4" but when I do that the files no longer play.
http://www.free-codecs.com/download/3ivx.htm - This will allow .m4a playback
Unfortunately as this solution is based on a Directshow filter, the files cannot be streamed from WMP12 as this only works with a Media Foundation codec.
Oh, and Microsoft, if you're reading this, Apple Lossless is now open source, so I'm sure there's some way you can bundle it into windows media player.
As far as I am aware all the solutions for playing Apple Lossless in WMP12 still require a DirectShow filter.
I found the easiest way was to install the Shark007 Windows7 Codec pack which not only includes support for playing Apple Lossless files but also has a tick box for disabling the built-in Media Foundation codec.
In this case the WMPTagPlus plugin merely tricks WMP12 in to thinking Apple Lossless files are AAC files, it does not need to do the tag reading as WMP12 can already read these tags.
Firstly with WMP12 Microsoft introduced Media Foundation as a replacement for Directshow.
http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_7-sound/apple-lossless-m4a-in-wmp12/d68a4dc0-224a-43b6-adfb-52402106b53b
Unfortunately, if the files have an "m4a" extension they appear in the Other Media section rather than in Music.
Thanks go to Tim De Beats for solving this problem.
This problem with Apple Lossless files being (incorrectly) placed in the other section can be fixed by installing the WMPTagPlus plugin.
Secondly, Microsoft willfully chose to put Apple Lossless files in the 'other' section of WMP rather than the music section, even though they have the same file extension, same file format, and same tag format as AAC files.
Basically they say install the DC-Bass Source Filter and you should be able to play the files.
Codecs packs can be evil, but i prefer to install simply the ones i need
So the full solution is to install the Shark007 codec pack, and the WMPTagPlus plugin.
This worked fine for Windows XP and Vista but for Windows 7 and later there are a couple of extra issues to accommodate.
Note: WMP12 has besides normally having built-in support for playing AAC files, also has built-in support for reading MPEG4 'atoms' i.e.
Not really a solution, but hopefully information that might help the community get one step closer.
Note: The above solution lets WMP12 recognise Apple Lossless and AAC files as music files, and lets it read the meta-tags in those files including album artwork.
As a result Microsoft Media Center can also play those files.
Examples how it can look: http://customize.org/foobar
http://www.free-codecs.com/download/DirectShow_FilterPack.htm - This will allow .ALAC playback
You can consider this to be like WMA vs. WMA Lossless.
As WMP12 includes support for AAC files with the .m4a file extension which is the same file extension as for Apple Lossless you therefore need to disable the built-in AAC support.
With the right plugins and individualization it'll be far better than the clunky, stupid Media Center/Player.