I have set up a business that ran purely on Open Source.
In those cases we set up a single PC with Windows XP and allowed people to use that PC for the specific task.
There was also some fairly major headaches getting single sign-on working with NIS/Kerberos
I think running Linux on a bunch of desktops is a more difficult and risky thing to do.
A lot of shops completely depend upon Windows-only applications.
PS - Its also worth mentioning the savings involved and less down-time associated with running Ubuntu/Linux vs Windows.
I work at a small engineering firm that has embraced Linux for all backoffice duties.
The employees stopped installing garbage on their PCs, the PCs didn't get infected with viruses, etc.
I run IT for a school that uses all OpenSUSE Linux except for one laptop that administration keeps for one person who does some financial work and does not interact with the school or any of its systems.
You will be trying to shove a square peg in a round hole with no real benefit to the business.
Will this small business have or use a software package or website that requires the use of Windows?
and all in all, I think we spent more time in support than we saved on licenses from MS
For a lot of businesses I think that Linux servers will make sense long before Linux desktops will even though they may be great.
In some rare cases there will be some custom software that only runs on Windows and doesn't work properly under WINE, etc.
Even if you don't have any software the requires Windows today doesn't mean that won't change in two months.
Depending on the software and task, this doesn't always work... but you'd be surprised what you CAN'T do if you set your mind on solutions rather than objections.
Using Linux keeps our costs down both hardware and software even though Windows would be pretty cheap.
The cost of changing over will likely out weigh any cost savings now.
The VPN and gateway has since been replaced with a hardware solution.
We have had great luck in the pure Linux environment.
From a purely non-tech point of view, the differences between Open Office files and Microsoft files caused a significant headache.
I know that OO saves as MS Office files, but it just did not work in the real world.
They should not use a tool that interferes or impedes their business.
The long terms savings on stuff like this was just a bonus.
We use Zimbra (commercial edition with ActiveSync) for email/calendaring, File/Print Server runs Samba, Document Management is running Knowledge Tree, webserver is running Linux, and when I started they were using a ClarkConnect box for the internet gateway and VPN.
Linux is still less expensive to acquire and manage.
To take eMail as an example - People also get comfortable with the Outlook instantaneous update you see with exchange - not so happy with a 5 minute poll on a local IMAP / POP server.