.bat files were introduced first under DOS type OS's.
In theory .cmd is more "trueЪ" :) because .bat is a script for the old DOS command.com while .cmd is for cmd.exe from Windows NT, the last one has a little more improved scripting.
Some of these can be illustrated by this script from over here:
In the real life usually both are equal, like writing /bin/sh or /bin/bash in Linux (mean distros where sh is actually bash)
Basically, .cmd files get the current, sexier version of the MS command language, which is why the cool kids use them.
Also, a .cmd file has the potential to not work in a 16-bit environment (win98) whereas a .bat file will probably work in all environments.
.cmd: The newer .cmd extension is described by Windows NT based systems as a 'Windows NT Command Script' and is helpful, as using a .cmd extension rather than .bat extension means that earlier versions of Windows won't know how to run it, so that they don't try to and mistake the commands for COMMAND.COM style files and fail to run the new style commands due to the lack of command extensions, resulting in scripts only being partially run which could prove damaging (for example; failing to check the successful copying of a file and then deleting the original anyway).
There are semantic differences in the command language used for each (.bat files get a compatibility version).
"Cool" people in our company always use *.cmd while no one was able to explain the difference to me.
This extension can be run in most Microsoft Operating Systems, including MS-DOS and most versions of Microsoft Windows.
.bat: The first extension used by Microsoft for batch files.
The only known difference between .cmd and .bat file processing is that in a .cmd file the ERRORLEVEL variable changes even on a successful command that is affected by Command Extensions (when Command Extensions are enabled), whereas in .bat files the ERRORLEVEL variable changes only upon errors.
Alot of the syntax is similar except when you begin to get into advanced functions.
If you're thinking in DOS terms, it's like a .bat file on steroids.