If the sync job can run over other protocols (psexec, FTP, SFTP, SCP, etc) that would likely be speedier.
This works out to be very painful when running sync jobs, etc.
The Prod Site firewall, running pfSense 2, accepts VPN TCP/UDP traffic on SMB ports 135-139 and 445.
Your solution is to find another way for these remote users to manipulate files.
Welcome to the wonderful world of SMB over any connection with higher than LAN latency.
However, when attempting to perform a deletion of a folder with many subfolders/files, or uploading many individual files, or modifying many individual files, the explorer grinds to a halt, usually working around 2-4 FILES per second (even if they are <1kb).
This lack of speed has been confirmed for Windows XP, 2k3 Server, and Windows 7 clients.
We have the following arrangement: Dev Site <--vpn--> Prod Site.
My guess is that neither will be the case, as you've discovered that SMB performance over a VPN generally stinks.
If you have strictly Server 2008 with Vista or newer clients, it won't be as bad.
You could try FTP, but that introduces another protocol, and FTP by itself is not particularly secure (better over the VPN).
There may also be an issue with packets being fragmented - in which case you can try to adjust the MTU between links (though this may not be possible with the connection under the VPN).
For mass uploads, they could upload a ZIP file and uncompress it on the server via remote desktop.
Our developers can connect to administrative shares \\Computer\C$ without incident, and actually uploading individual files to the share is fairly breezy at around 200-300 kilobytes per second.
Especially when working with shares with lots of files and/or directories.
Everything you describe is perfectly normal for such scenarios, once you're over 20 ms things get significantly slower, in excess of 50 ms and it's painfully so.
The protocol is very poorly designed for connections with higher than LAN latencies.
But your best bet is to give the users remote desktop to the server and have them do the deletions there.
You should certainly check your office ISP's bandwidth to make sure it isn't oversubscribed, and you can use ping to test latency between the remote developers and your server.
The -f argument is the don't fragment flag, and the -l is the size.
See "Performance issues" here for more in depth info:
The question of sync jobs is challenging, because you most likely do have to look at each file.
For example, on my desktop - I can't send a ping larger than 1472 without it needing to be split into multiple packets (Win7 -> Win2008R2):
I would suggest starting at 1500 and working your way down.