to the wifi network, the traffic will be automatically routed through your Mac.
Like a lot of server-ish stuff, Mac OS X includes the software, but only includes a GUI for them with Mac OS X Server.
The easiest form of proxy is to use SSH port forwarding.
This does require you to leave the SSH client open, however.
I don't know if linking to an external reply is allowed here (and if not, I'm really sorry) but I wrote an article explaining how to do exactly what you want.
In theory you could manipulate them directly for free (iVPN is shareware), but I was never able to figure out how, and iVPN is extremely straight forwards.
A pop menu should appear and in Interface select "VPN" and then your VPN type following by the name you want to give to your connection.
What about just using native VPN (PPTP) client supplied with OSX and squidman to share the connnection?
Then tell the remote device to connect to the internet via a SOCKS proxy at 127.0.0.1:1234.
If you're using an iPod touch, that may not be possible (it certainly didn't used to be; things may have changed with the iOS 4 'multitasking') and you'll need to use a full-blown VPN or proxy server.
iVPN provides a Mac OS X GUI for the VPN server components that are already on your Mac.
There are doubtless simple programs that will let you set up a proxy server, but I don't know of any.
Read more here: http://gigaom.com/apple/create-a-wifi-hotspot-share-your-internet-connection-in-leopard/
After that you need to configure the connection settings like the IP address and the credentials to access the VPN.
VPN and proxy servers are quite different, however both let you access network resources otherwise unavailable.
If you are using a wired network on you Mac, you can create a local hotspot with the wifi on your Mac.
This is not really a VPN solution, but the easiest option that reaches your goal, I think.
Turn on "Remote Login" in the "Sharing" section of System Preferences, then from the remote device, do:
The way to set-up a VPN in MacOS is simple (i'm assuming Snow Leopard here), just go to System Preferences->Network and on the bottom left click the + sign.