Installed all the dependencies as recommended in many online sources.
@Brady's all other suggestions are a MUST for success, including source updates related to: recordset_text_storage.cpp .
I might attempt to downgrade glib and see if that fixes.
although I'm now using mysql-workbench, it's hard for me to ignore all the warnings from GLib-GObject-WARNING.
@lorelogo's was on the right track, but to take his suggestion further, I also had to remove all the header files generated by antlr-3.5.2-complete.jar (they are not in the wb-build/ folder, but inside the parent).
By the way, I also tried to install Fedora 20 rpm and a RedHat package; they both install fine, but the result set are empty.
I was trying to compile mysql-workbench from source (since mysql's fedora 21 repo still doesn't have it).
I finally successfully compiled mysql-workbench 6.2.4 on Fedora 21, after several days of trying.
I found that antlr is in the Fedora 21 repositories that ships with the distro.
It's possible I forgot few other steps I had to take to fix this, since this struggle continued a week.
I solved the issue in this way on OpenSuse 13.1 64bit:
Currently i'm stuck at the following error message and not sure how to proceed.
The last step wasn't required for me to successfully compile.
It's IMPORTANT to get ctemplate 2.2 from https://code.google.com/p/ctemplate/downloads/list and compile it yourself.
But without this step compiled workbench doesn't start (since it tried to load /usr/lib64/libctemplate.so.2).
Switching to antlr-3.4.2-complete.jar in the middle is not a fix, since it doesn't re-generate the header files anew.
Downloading the JAR file did not fully work for me.
@Brady's suggestion of using antlr-3.5.2-complete.jar didn't work for me.
So re-compiling from source is the only option i have.
But since mysql-workbench looks for ctemplate.so.2 in /usr/lib64/ but "make install" installed it on my /usr/local/lib folder, I created symlinks in my /usr/lib64 by doing
If you don't have ctemplate 2.2 installed (which is not available in fc21 repositories) you start getting other compile errors, usually related to missing ctemplate/template.h or Ctemplate::* type definitions.
It got me through the cmake step for mysql-workbench but once I started to compile with make I hit a lot of errors associated with antlr.
This allowed me to start compiling the mysql-workbench.
If you can't resolve, try to remove the wb-build directory and its content and rerun cmake.
Start... but did not finish as there is some C code issues I am now confronted with outside of the subject here.
Otherwise incompatible header files would be generated (which is the reason for errors related to  MySQLLexer's C code.
For me it was easier to just extract the mysql-workbench's source archive anew and start over.