If it isn't, fix whatever's wrong with your Sendmail server.
Sample manual smtp session (< denotes responses from server)
Finally, on the sendmail box, you could try to telnet to the SMTP server of your ISP and see what kind of response you get.
<250 may receive multiple 250 lines depending on available options
Does someone have some suggestions here on what could be the cause?
The ISP may drop the message without giving you any indication as to why.
All applications send their automatic e-mails (invoices and such) through sendmail on a Linux server, which in turn sends e-mail through SMTP via our Internet Service Provider smtp.our-isp.co.uk.
You should also take a look at your sendmail logs.
Assuming the server accepted the message, you should get a 250 reply with some type of acknowledgement (like "queued for delivery", etc.
I am thinking it may have to do with some sort of spam protection mechanism.
I agree with mfinni, you need to track the messages a bit further to determine the point of failure.
it is filtered even before reaching their own mailbox it seems).
First assumption is that you are not receiving any type of NDR (non-delivery report) from the emails that never arrive at the destination correct?
I debated the question title for a while but I think this about explains the question.
Additionally, you can manually test smtp from your Linux server to the smtp relay server to verify proper communications.
All users send e-mail through our Microsoft Exchange 2010 server, which in turn sends e-mail through SMTP via our Internet Service Provider smtp.our-isp.co.uk.
If all these steps to narrowing down the problem fail, your last resort would be to contact them directly.
Check the maillog on your Linux server and see if it shows errors for the communications.
Feel free to edit it if someone has a better title.
If it is, then contact them for the logs on their side - ie, we can't help you.
This happens on particular recipients but I can never understand why, if the e-mails are being sent in the same method.
However, if a user sends an e-mail (Microsoft Exchange 2010 -> ISP SMTP) it reaches the recipient ok but if an application sends an e-mail (sendmail -> ISP SMTP) it doesn't reach the recipient at all (i.e.
This is always the first step in trying to determine if it is your server configs causing the issue, or something being returned from the receiving server.
Check your logs on your Linux server, verify that the ISP is accepting the email for delivery.
If that all succeeds, then the message may be getting hung up at the ISP, or silently dropped by your ISP (is your linux server IP configured to be allowed to relay through your ISP?)
You need to try and narrow down how far your email is making it to then try and get assistance in checking logs from other servers involved for which you will not have access to (which is always the fun part in tracking down an email).