NOTE: One other obvious thing that stands out from your sample data is that appointment details is probably actually a compound attribute.
If that is true of the actual data, then you'd actually want to split out a two-column relation: (e.g.
If you did split out a treatment relation, then the appointment relation would only have the Treatment ID, not the description in it.
That appears to be the details of the appointment, which seem to depend on the patient, the doctor and the date.
It looks like the details are a number and a textual description, jammed together with " - " between them.
That means that you need to move the appointment details out to a new relation (along with foreign keys that make a candidate key for the Appointment Details relation.
If you look at your two relations that you have after achieving 2NF, you have these candidate keys and the following fields which rely on those keys:
Let's consider the basic steps in plain, but less accurate, English:
You could make a case, therefore, that the textual description is determined by the leading number.
Third Normal Form (3NF) says that every attribute in a relation depends only on every candidate key (and nothing else).
Your relation doesn't have any repeating groups in any of the columns, so your relation is already in 1NF.
Once you get comfortable with it, you won't usually need to go through a formal normalization exercise.
First Normal Form (1NF) says to remove columns containing repeating groups to its own table.
Second Normal Form (2NF) says that there shouldn't be any non-key attributes which depend on a subset of a multi-part candidate key.
This is also know as a "transitive functional dependency" - also to be avoided.
So following the technical tutorials is something you should do.
When talking about 2NF, sometimes you'll hear the term "partial functional dependency".
However, I remember when normalization was first taught to me it didn't click in right away.
I hope this helps to understand the steps and how to apply them to your example.
: Treatment ID, Treatment Description) as a separate relation.
You'll figure them out soon enough and then you'll start to get an instinctual feel for defining relations in 3NF right from the start.
As the old saying goes: Technically correct is the best kind of correct.