It's fast and lightweight, and has some basic useful options.
As the script itself will tell you when opening your file with gnumeric, when you are done with your editing, you must select the portion of the spreadsheet you want to save before pressing Ctr-C (to copy this portion to the clipboard).
On my system (Crunchbang) and with a file as small as in your example, leafpad consumes about 2M of RAM; gnumeric, 4M; and scalc (from LibreOffice), 34M.
I then got this dialog, and chose "comma" as the separator:
Gnumeric clearly is on the lightweight end, and it should detect your separator correctly on opening the file.
I have found this to be an efficient way to work on CSV data files from the command line.
The script should save the file correctly as long as it does not contain tabs within the comma-separated fields (which seems to be the case in your data-analysis example).
If sourced (not run), this script gives you access to two functions, gn to open the file in gnumeric:
I saved your example as test.csv and opened it with LibreOffice with no trouble at all:
It's not the most lightweight option but achieves simple edits in fewest clicks.
Your modified values won't have quotes around them, but they will be separated by tabs; hence, the script uses sed to replace tabs by commas.
Going back to the command line (Alt-Tab), entering gp will update your file with the content of the clipboard and close gnumeric.
The "best" (yes, in Ironic quotes) I've found so far is a java app called csveditor It's pretty clean, but doesn't really follow the best UI guidelines.
and gp to paste the content back into the file and close gnumeric:
But (there is a but...) gnumeric won't let you save the modified file without going through a hurdle of menus.
The script relies on xsel (a lightweight commmand-line clipboard manager) to paste the modified spreadsheet content back into your file.
(Personally, I source this script in my .bashrc to have the gn and gp functions available whenever I open a terminal.)
TBH, I never have found anything really good on Linux that is also lightweight.