One possibility is to build a server around a mini-ITX board with a VIA EPIA CPU which can be used to build fanless computers.
I have seen it as low as 25w but that's not common.
They also have a couple of exposed 5.25" bays that you could use for a tape backup unit or other removable media.
With that being said, full-blown computers are obviously much more flexible/capable then consumer NASes, however home built anything will always consume more electricity.
There's also options within Linux to spin down drives when unused, such as setting the drive options using hdparm or installing software like noflushd.
just noticed they are "Removing the NFS server support due to instability."
It's kind of odd that redundancy isn't a must considering it's a file server, but to each his/her own.
Beta firmware 1.08 Build 5 is said to add an NFS Server (see point 39):
Another NAS I'd recommend is the the QNAP TS-239 Pro.
It retails around $300+, but look on online retailers and you'll see they sell it for less.
In particular, look at some of the low-power Opteron options for a ML115.
4 Disc NASes have a wider range of prices that will probably discourage you.
It can also be tied into Active Directory for authentication if necessary, or it can use itself as an LDAP server.
I have NAS at home hooked up to a UPS, and just with the simple UPS monitor, it ranges from 45W-55W with just two drives.
For a distro, there are various appropriate linux distributions such as Ubuntu Server or Fedora, plus some more tailored systems like OpenFiler.
For the drive case, anything will do if you are willing to punch a hole in the case to run in the SATA cables.
Off the top of my head, I'd recommend the Netgear ReadyNAS Duo RND2000.
That would be low power, and the BIOS probably has options for spinning down hard drives when unused.
), small (about the size of a mini-tower PC) and have space for 4 3.5" SATA drives internally.
In my experience, building a PC/File Server from scratch doesn't come close in terms of  power efficiency to most consumer level NAS devices.
The software it comes with is fairly easy to use and works reliably.
While it may be the most economical/hacker-ish type solution, to me it smells like more trouble than it's worth.
These are quite cheap (dirt cheap on ebay, often £100-200; retail prices start at about £300-400.
I could be wrong these days as it's been a while since I've used/played around with both, but if your files mean anything to you just get a cheap NAS device, hook it up to your LAN and call it a night.
For a system platform, take a look at a HP ML110 or ML115.
In either case, you would probably want to put the hard drives outside the computer case, in their own box with its own temperature controlled fan.
If cost is the biggest issue and speed/redundancy are supplemental, 2-drive NAS devices should suffice.
There are external cables that can be used to connect SATA drives, and even if the motherboard only has internal SATA connectors, you can get adaptors to allow you to connect external SATA.
I've used DDWRT and Tomato and they're both fine ROMs for wireless routers/firewalls/vpns but file serving isn't something that I saw as a major priority with both projects.
Recent models also have a PCI-e x8 slot if you want to install a hardware RAID controller.
The price range is fairly small from $100 to $300.
During off-peak times, it can get into the 30w-40w range.
Recent versions of Samba will fake a domain controller if you need them to.
The other possibility is to build it around a mini-ITX that uses an Intel ATOM CPU such as the Zotac ION.
Building is always fun but in the end can cost more, have more problems/maintenance, is physically much larger and consumes more electricity than a consumer-NAS counterpart.
Granted I have a 4-disk NAS, it's easier to operate, small and very energy efficient.
As for hardware, I would look for a mini-ITX system.
It's easy to configure with the included management website.
But it sounds like money is an issue so I'd go with 2-disk in your situation.
It's running Linux embedded so if you really want to dig into the internals, ssh access is available.
If you buy one with a slower, low-power chip, power consumption will be relatively low.
OpenFiler also supports software RAID, so if you're looking to spend less on hardware, you can still have redundancy.
I own a TS-409 Pro but I've been very happy with QNAP as it's pretty rock solid.
I think there's also a big rebate from Netgear on it as well these days but I'm not too sure.
Note, Netgear sells most of their NASes with hard drives so prices seem to be inflated.
It's a Linux-based NAS appliance, and it supports NFS, CIFS, WebDAV, RSYNC, FTP, and iSCSI.
If you're lucky, you may be able to get consumption to within a few watts to consumer-ish hardware, but the time/effort/money may not be worth it.
That would help cut the power usage significantly, especially if they can be spun down roughly 23 hours per day.
If the system is mostly idle, it will draw relatively little power.
There is however 3rd party firmware for the DNS-323 so you could still get NFS support: http://wiki.dns323.info/howto:chroot_debian