We now backup to disk, and I look for a backup solution to be:
It's basically like rsync, but you can easily access old versions of files/directories and manage how many old versions are kept.
Bacula 3.0 comes with a new plugin system and native support for Exchange 2003 & 2007.
Additional state of the software is entirely in a SQL database, which can be audited by appropriate tools on the database side.
See the Bacula documentation for a more in depth look at Bacula architecture.
The problem here is that NetBackup has assumed this for you - so suddently, the backup team ask you for all sorts of access (root access to be specific).
Another flaw of NetBackup is that - say you want to revive a server from scratch, from backup - you actually can't.
Bacula supports Windows as well as any POSIX compliant Unix system.
Bacula stores all file contents in volumes which can be stored on local filesystem, on tape drives or even on DVD media.
While these fail many of the "enterprise" criteria specified above, in my experience the keep-it-simple, standardized approach is more likely to result in your data being both recoverable and secure.
Bacula consists of file daemons (clients), one or more directors (Job Schedulers) and one or more storage daemons.
This is again due to the fact that they can't generate good reports because we don't give them root access to the severs.
All configuration exists in the form of plain text files, which can be easily versioned by a SCM.
Bacula doesn't support any form of data deduplication.
HP DP also has a nice command line but tar is much more flexible.
As of Bacula 3.0, there's a mode to handle deleted/renamed files correctly.
Additionally there's an extensive framework to run custom scripts on client side before/after backup jobs.
Firstly, NetBackup would not be such a disaster if the team responsible for the servers was also the team in charge of the backups, but in the case of an enterprise-sized company, this is often not the case.
I haven't used it on Windows, but according to the project's mailing list it runs pretty much the same there.
Oh - the reports that you get from NetBackup are also inferior to that which you get from Legato.
It's only useful when backing up to disk, but disks are cheaper than tape these days anyway.
You need to install the Operating System, install the netbackup client, and then restore the files.
No native interfaces for monitoring or performance data exist, although this information can be extracted from the SQL databases without too much troubles.
You can define intervals and start times for every backup job, but there's no automatic tuning/distribution of the jobs based on (changing) amounts of data which need to be backed up.
This is by no means a complete answer as I simply don't have a complete answer, but I can comment on two products...
Jobs can be easily migrated between different pools.
Keep in mind there is no one ideal solution for backing up all systems, and developing effective backup strategies for each one involves more than just buying an agent for a commercial program.
NetBackup reports (which I've seen to date as managed by our backup team) is very useless - to the point that we have asked them to tell us if it went ok or not, and we depend on them (i.e.
It's architecture is designed after that of major commercial solutions.
Each director can use multiple catalogs (SQL Databases) to store information about jobs.
Authentication between daemons is always secure, to encrypt the communication between the daemons, a full rollout of PKI (client certificates) must be done.
Bacula is working on a Live system which aids in bare metal recovery.
we don't monitor the backup email ourselves anymore).
You need to have it installed on both the server and the client, and it runs on OS X, Linux, and Windows.
There've been some improvements in this area in Bacula 3.0, which I haven't explored in detail yet.
After 10+ years and thousands of dollars, I have given up on both tape and commercial solutions.