Far fewer users need access to Internet-facing servers than to regular corporate computing resources, so setting up a system in this way should not impose significant extra administrative overhead in terms of user support.
Finally, is there any way to reduce the damage potential if a domain controller is compromised?
Any account with privileges in AD (domain admins, help desk, etc) should never log into any regular member server or workstation.
This is inside our internet border firewall, but is still firewalled to some extent from the juicy goodness of the greater network.
I.e., you should set the Deny Logon rights to include Domain Admins and other privileged groups on regular member machines.
Universal best practices (read your logs, secure Administrator passwords, etc) should be a given.
We do have an auth barrier between the WLAN and anything interesting, which helps.
This separation of roles is one of the key aspects of securing a network.
Use Group Policy to reinforce network firewall rules at the host's firewall.
All in all, the amount of evil-ware we've seen on the WLAN is more interested in sending large amounts of email than it is in scanning everything local to the machine to worm its way around.
Rename the Administrator account to something else, add "Administrator" as a disabled guest account (trivial to overcome, but it can block some dumb scripts).
A general rule is that the only thing that goes on a DC is Active Directory itself.
should either be stand-alone machines or be in a separate Active Directory forest from your corporate forest.
The red forest is a separate forest with a one-way trust that houses your domain admin accounts.
I work at a higher ed with a wireless LAN segment that students (and somewhere between one to three devices in their bags) can connect to.
If compromised it gives the attacker your Windows network.
It requires extra effort and servers, but you can get 95% of the benefits without it if you are careful.
Yes, we did have the occasional hacked server (from the Internet side, not WLAN side).
Note that each security measure is one piece of the total solution, and you need all of the rest.
You should have dedicated workstations for these accounts, and your regular workstation accounts should not be able to log into the AD admin workstations.
This separate forest should exist entirely in a DMZ, while your corporate AD forest should exist entirely within your corporate firewall's strictest boundaries.
A domain admin should NEVER log into a DMZ system or an internet-connected machine.
These users are assigned to a single group with nerfed privileges and removed from the Domain Users group.
The best way is to use Microsoft's red forest design.
What's more, student laptops are not domained, and we do not have any kind of controls for what is on them.
It is also possible to setup a separate DMZ domain (with or without a trust to the internal domain).
There should be zero accounts which can log into both regular workstations and AD admin workstations.
You should also have separate unprivileged accounts for web/email.
I'm looking for info that relates specifically to Active Directory (2003 and 2008).
In order to allow student printing from their laptops, we have to allow domain logins which in turn requires visiblity to the DC's.
In an environment with externally facing Windows servers (web servers in my case), what steps are necessary to protect Active Directory from attack?
Our estimated recovery from a compromised DC was several days before implementing a red forest; it is under 12 hours with a red forest.
In general, all admin activity should occur on systems that have no access to the internet and restricted IP connectivity to machines that do.
A Microsoft best-practices document I read once suggested that your Internet-facing servers (web, e-mail, etc.)
Also, we're forever going to the WLAN login logs to see who was on what IP when the RIAA sends us an offender notice for a torrenter.
In a similar fashion, there should be dedicated accounts for DMZ machines, and no accounts should have access to both DMZ and internal assets.
Obviously, you can only restrict Domain Admins in that fashion if you have separate accounts for server and workstation administration.
It's not always achievable, of course, but it's all about reducing the number of services that are potentially exposed.
You will need to understand pass-the-hash (PtH) and pass-the-ticket (PtT) attacks, as these are the primary means by which attackers spread throughout a Windows network.
When I first got here I was surprised that a Windows network this open could survive at all.
Set IPSec Policy so all Domain Controller to Domain Controller traffic is encrypted over the wire
Externally facing servers are in a separate domain than the HQ/Office machines.
I have a one-way trust (DMZ trusts HQ) to simplify some logins, but am looking at phasing this out.
You still need to secure your user accounts properly with either Smart Cards (strongly recommended) or good password policies.
Microsoft has PtH guidance, but it may be a bit complicated if you're not already familiar with security issues: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36036
You still need to segment your network and have proper firewall/ACL restrictions.
Active Directory is one of the best features of Windows Server, but it's also a big shiny target.
Recovering AD after a compromise is possible, but it must be done absolutely correctly---and obviously, there will be some down time while the domain is being restored and sanitized.
This prevents those highly privileged credentials from being stolen when an attacker gains admin/system privileges on one workstation and subsequently spreads to others (usually by stealing credentials when a workstation admin logs in).
Configure all network services to run as Active Directory users (IIS apps run under users named "svc-servicename").
How do you reduce the damage potential if a domain member is compromised?
You still need intrusion detection, antivirus, a good external firewall, and a web proxy.
You just have to remember your separate usernames and passwords for each domain.