Backing up data is more a philosophy than a rigorous method that anyone can tell you is "good enough."
For example your Keychains or 1Password files, or your financial files.
But also consider this, the less convenient you make the process of backing up or retrieving lost data, the less likely you are to do it effectively.
Something like an rsync destination, an FTP Server, an online Volume like DropBox, iDisk or similar comes to mind.
For other online backups, I've heard good things about Mozy, & Carbonite.
Having a USB thumb drive ready comes in handy every time.
Lastly if it's within your budget, consider a time machine backup as well.
Another compelling online option would be to use a tool like SuperFlexibleFileSynchronizer along with amazon S3 storage.
Especially when you're working on the road with a portable Mac.
Superflexible is a really great product for a number of reasons.
Merlin Mann is a great source to get you started as you've already mentioned.
Have a way to backup these instantly with not more than a single click.
I have a few concerns with BackBlaze, in that there are folders they don't backup - including /Applications.
That way I can be sure that all my valuable password information (an numerous other items I store in notes on my keychains) are always save.
Superflexible has a nice file change hook feature that can watch a folder for changes and immediately backup those changes.
The 'cheap' tier of Amazon storage guarantees your backup is replicated among two different data centers in different locations.
The lack of a restore utility isn't great, but I suspect the options they have would be fine if you ever found yourself in a situation where you lost everything.
I don't know if you've ever seen it, but if you open time machine while you're in Mail, it opens up your mailbox back in time instead of the finder - just go back and find that old message you deleted and click restore and you're in business.
We are human; our bits are imprinted on physical media that will decay.
No plan is perfect just like no web host can offer true, mathematically and legally accurate 100% uptime.
while SuperDuper is great for Disaster recovery (Crashed or stolen laptop for example), Time Machine is your long time archive - enabling you to easily go back and get a version of your files from 6 months back.
Of course Internet access is required for this to work, but that is usually easily obtained with 3G, iPhone tethering or the omnipresent WiFi networks.
For example I have a simple launchd item set up that will automatically push my keychain files to my home server every time they are changed.
There are files that you would want to have backed up even in between your, let's say hourly backup interval like TimeMachine does for example.
(Provided you are willing to trust your data to somebody else.)
Some security people would venture to say that having a backup onsite/offsite is bad because that's another copy that could fall into the wrong hands and might argue that using your own encryption would be better than handing it off to an otherwise unknown party.