Security and countersecurity are just the same medal...just not the same side.
As for the specifics of your question, yes you will see your assets with another point of view, discovering consequences of previous decisions and configurations and their impact.
It's up to the bosses to see if they want to invest or not in this prevention, but they have to understand the added value to properly analyze if it's worth it or not.
If you want to do active security, as in protection AND prevention, you want to be 2 steps ahead of hackers...in which case the dual mindset is necessary.
However..in the industry, it isn't always easy to justify the time dedicated to security.
If you approach your network with the mindset of "if I wanted to do XYZ, how would I do it?"
In general, yes, you should know how the system works in order to subvert it, then you know a little better how to protect your systems and network.
If you want to do passive security, as in protect yourself from what you know and if a problem comes, you fix it, you don't need the hacker mindset.
I think it's important to know how anything you use works and know its weak points.
It boggles my mind how many "security auditors" are out there who have never configured a server in their life, yet they are the ones coming into big companies and performing audits and telling people whats right and wrong, yet they have no experience hands on with anything.
Knowledge of your environment is the first step to protecting it: Knowing the systems, learning about the languages and OS version used, knowing how the servers interact, and protective controls already in place, understanding what kind of organization you're trying to protect.
Once you have that knowledge, attack techniques are key because they give you the ability to audit these systems both in production and before they get there, and help expose the assumptions about how your systems are run.
An interesting recently released book where a number of high profile security experts discuss "the security mindset" is Beautiful Security
I think that wihout actively trying to "break things", it is difficult to develop the right mindset - to be able to think as a hacker.
I find that the my most important question is not "what could an attacker do against my system?"
but instead "What are most attackers doing right now against people running systems like mine?"
Reality: nmap just returned a list of systems that have vulnerable ports exposed to the internet, lets take a closer look at our firewall rules.
You run around and disabled BIOS based virtualization because you read all about Blue Pill rootkits, but the systems aren't patched or screened by a firewall and they still get owned by a drive by download.
But there is a danger, once you've seen all the attacks that come out of BH/defcon every year, you can become over focused on the cool new attacks and totally miss other critical basics.
These are kind of satellite subjects to understanding how the system works in the first place.
you'll then be able to say, "If someone did ABC, how do I stop them?"