Alternatively, if you want to do this for all websites then there are a number of scripts on userscripts.org that will do this (although I haven't used any myself so can't vouch for any one in particular).
When you log in, the usual "do you want to remember this password" dialogue should appear.
Simply create a new bookmark with that code as the target, and click it on a page that you want to remember your password.
Just know that the scripts, while good, cannot reliably override this function in every case.
When logging in on some websites, these sites don't offer (I suspect intentionally) to remember passwords.
The Password Manager in Firefox will respect individual sites' requests to disallow password remembrance.
Passwords are not remembered on these sites because the site authors have deliberately set the autocomplete="off" attribute on the form/form fields to prevent password saving.
They need to be run before you submit your ID / password.
On top of this it is not browser-specific so you could use it to store and enter your passwords for about every GUI-based application (eg.
In my opinion, it is always good to have your passwords not stored in your browser (also enabling you to get a bit more privacy by emptying all private data, cookies and so on when you close your browser).
There are JavaScript commands that can be run in Firefox to attempt to override the "do not remember passwords" request from the website.
Using the Greasemonkey addon it is possible to automatically run your own JavaScript in web pages, and this can be used to to re-enable password saving on such pages.
Firefox does not work in the way you want it to work.
Most notably, Gmail, Hotmail, and Yahoo have all written code to prevent passwords from being remembered on their sites.
This happens not only on public websites, but also in my intranet (remote web consoles, Dell DRAC, ...) and it is extremely annoying to having to type the login details each time.
Programmers willing enough and smart enough will be able to prevent you from saving passwords.
If you choose to write your own, this JavaScript could be as simple as the following (taken from my script to do this for o2.co.uk).
Without any Add-Ons, there is only one way to add passwords to the Password Manager in Firefox: wait for the prompt while you are logging in, and select to remember the password.
You can use the auto-type feature enabling you to have Keypass type logins and passwords on you behalf, in a secure fashion (without keyloggers being able to log what you typed).
In the Password Manager (Firefox > Options > Security tab > Saved Passwords), you have the ability to remove passwords, but not add passwords.
These scripts, provided below from squarefree.com, can be bookmarked, and work to varying degrees of success depending on the website you are using.
You aren't getting an answer that says what you want because that answer does not exist.
It is also very valuable in that it constitues a safe lock for all your passwords.
I have been using KeepassX for a while and it has saved my left wrist for a thousands of repetitive Ctrl + C, Ctrl + V...
Here is a bookmarklet to turn on password memorising and autocomplete on text fields where it is disabled:
If you are on Linux, you can check the excellent KeepassX.
Is it possible somehow, to force a particular website (Firefox) to remember the username and password ?
The other option is to use an AddOn for Firefox, like the ones mentioned in the other answers.
This prompt can be disabled in Firefox by adding an Exception to the Password Manager or at the request of the website itself.
You might want to consider a solution such as Keypass.
NOTE: In my firefox, I have "remember password for sites" selected, and "Exceptions" is empty.