Is there a basic terrain shape that should be designed that encompasses all these corners and types of tiles, that is later converted to a proper tileset?
Tile A's top edge should be seamless to the bottom of J, G H, and I. Tile A's Right edge should be seamless to the left edge of B and C. Tile A's bottom edge should be seamless to the top of D, and G. And finally, tile A's left edge should be seamless to C, F, I, and J.
I understand creating corners and borders and edges for different terrain types and materials, but I'm at a loss when considering how to make a terrain tileset that accomodates all types of concave edges and convex corners.
Also, the top of tile E must be seamless to the bottom of tiles B, M, and N, while the top of J must be seamless to the bottom of G, H, and I.
Creating multiple sets like this you can make some intricate maps.
To make the tile set look good, a basic rule needs to be followed.
Is there a specific set of required tiles that you need to design?
Some examples: tiles E, and J must tile with themselves in all directions.
Is it just a lot of artist work, or are there shortcuts?
Tile B's left edge should tile with the right edge of A, B, and M. Tile B's right edge should be seamless to the left edge of B, C, and N.
Is there an established methodology for designing diverse, quality 2d environment tilesets?
For example, the following Tilemap from Chrono Trigger:
That is each tile must tile seamlessly with all the tiles it can connect to.
As you can see this is a long tedious list to write out, but at this point I think you can figure the rest out.
How do you approach designing such a versatile tileset?
This same approach can be used to construct building exteriors, fences, caverns, and mazes.
They are able to basically create any shape they want with the surface tiles, and the rocky cliffs are perfectly matched.
If you use the same grass tile in both set, you can go from dirt to grass to water seamlessly.
You can have a dirt/grass, and a grass/water tile sets.