Other way is to leave the account active and give new person read access to old mailbox (could also do this just to do the import, but the PST might just be easier for that)  Downside is you need to leave old account active and have inactive accounts hanging around.
Make sure their name is the default, that is the one Exchange will send email as and now the new person will get all email for both old and new accounts forever, no forwarding rules to worry about on the old account.
You can't remove Exchange attributes from an user without removing the associated mailbox too, because the mailbox in Exchange actually is an Exchange attribute (and some database storage, of course).
You can give the "old" user a dummy e-mail address and remove the main one, giving it to the "new" user as a secondary one; this way, the new user will receive all messages addresses to that address, while the old mailbox will remain fully functional.
I would simply export the old users mailbox to a pst file, delete the user account and mailbox, and add the old users email address(es) to the new users account.
Then add the old user's SMTP address to the new user.
I understand your desire to cover the bases here but employees quit, get fired, pass away, etc.
The solution your third-party friend provided is very reasonable and is how I would proceed myself.
If you have turnover and need to give someone's replacement the same set of custom SMTP addresses as the "old uesr" you need only put the "new user" into the correct groups.)
You can optionally import the old users pst file into the new users mailbox (create a folder to import to, to keep things separate).
You can change remove the SMTP email address of the old user, SMTP tab in user properties on the Exchange server.
(In general, you should use groups to assign additional SMTP addresses to users rather than doing it by hand.
If you did somehow need to maintain the old user's email address for forwarding to a new user after you delete the old user's AD account, I'd recommend creating a mail-enabled group with an Exchange Alias that matches the old user's Alias such that the group gets the same email address as the "old user".
If it's small enough it's not a bad idea just to PST it with ExMerge and put a copy of it on your backup server (for safe keeping) and give a copy to new person to open locally and import into their own account as they need it.
A disabled user account cannot receive email, so that's not an option for you.
Or you can do as it was suggested, and use forwarding; but it will stop working if you delete the old user account.
Worst case scenario is you have to restore the old users account and mailbox, which is easily done as long as you have good backups.
What I would not do is manually add additional SMTP addresses to individual user accounts, ever.
We do this when someone gets married, we just add the new name to the SMTP and set it as the default, doesn't matter if someone uses old or new email address that way and everything is contained in the new persons email account.
I prefer the first solution, because it lets me decouple the archived mailbox from the e-mail address and manage them separately.
Put the user(s) who should receive those emails into that group.
This allows you to disable and delete the old account and keep the system clean.