There's companies like Mezolink, who specialize in such larger quantities of data backup for small and midsize businesses: http://www.mezolink.com/services/online-backups.aspx
(At $50/month I could build my own NAS to hold the data which would pay for itself after ~2-3 months) (To be fair, they're offering quite a bit more service than I'm looking for at that price, such as offering public HTTP access to the data)
If you opt for reduced redundancy storage, you're in even better shape pricewise.
The data set is almost entirely static, and mostly consists of things like installers for Visual Studio, and installer disk images for all of my games.
Amazon recently reduced their prices, you might want to look at them again.
Well, what I ended up going with is that service called CrashPlan, which is similar to Mozy and Carbonite but doesn't throttle (and the client is actually pretty decent even without the offsite backup bit).
I have found two services which meet most of this:
I would personally take a look at cheaper dedicated servers or virtual private servers that have bigger hard drives / the ability to add storage.
You can do this manually or write a small python script to do it automatically for you.
There are other services such as EC2 which don't have such bandwidth caps, but such services are typically stored in highly redundant servers, and therefore cost on the order of 10 cents/gb/month, which is insanely expensive for storage of this kind of data set.
They claim not to throttle either, and have a speedtest on their site.
However, both services impose low bandwidth caps, on the order of 50kb/s, which prevent me from backing up a dataset of this size effectively (somewhere on the order of 6 weeks), despite the fact that I get multiple MB/s upload speeds everywhere else from this location.
I don't care about data retention rates, as this is only a backup of, not primary storage, for my data.
I'd like to setup an offsite backup solution for about 500GB of data that's currently stored between my various machines.
I'm able to backup all my data to Amazon S3 for less than a dollar a month, though it looks like your backup would cost a few dollars more.
If the backup is stored on crappy non-redundant systems, that does not matter.
Carbonite has the additional problem that it tries to ignore pretty much every file in my backup set by default, because the files are mostly iso files and vmdk files, which aren't backed up by default.
Does anything exist meeting those requirements or am I basically hosed?
If you're smart about which data you need to backup as well as make sure you use a good compression tool like 7zip you could probably save quite a bit of money.
backblaze might be what you're looking for - 5 dollars a month per computer, unlimited storage, and should you really need it, they mail you cds or hard drives with your data for a fee.
This will still be expensive, but nothing compared to a "cloud" solution.
Another option available to you, which is worth a shot - find a host that has an "unlimited" plan and see just how unlimited it is, you never know, you may get lucky.