If a network partition happens only one partition will have quorum, the other stop services until the partition goes away.
Since only modes that were reachable by clients spent records assigned to those nodes, there should be no over-spent records.
The main thing that would make such an attack possible is if both partitions are independently addressable during a partition, which may not be the case.
When the partition is resolved, all of the nodes resynchronize which data records are spent.
As for the likelihood of a partition, that depends on your infrastructure and how your nodes are communicating availability state to each other.
For each new data record that is created as unspent, assign it to a single node.
The quorum is used to determine the majority and minority partitions.
Such systems frequently have the concept of a quorum, which is why such systems require an odd number of member nodes.
Having dealt with similar issues in Clustering scenarios, I'm familiar with the situation you describe.
If the partitions are not addressable, then this attack is a lot less likely to succeed.
The quorum is the number, greater than half, that defines what is the minimum number of available nodes that needs to be present to provide services.
In my experience, network partitions frequently exclude end-users from one partition as well as the other nodes.
Thought will have to be put in to how records are assigned to nodes, and what to do when a node runs out of its own records during both unified and partitioned operation.
If you're looking for a practical solution to allow transactions to continue while there is a partition, I have an idea.
If a multiple partition event happens it can lead to no services being provided at all.
As for their ability to detect a partition event, that depends on your code.
However, it does guarantee only-one node is serving, and that's how consistency is provided.
While the network is partitioned, the data records assigned to the reachable nodes are the only ones allowed to be spent by the clients.