Well some software is specifically written for AIX/Solaris etc.
In terms of Solaris vs Linux I can say my eyes were somewhat opened reading the Sun published book "Solaris Internals".
were it simply about obtaining technology, that can be done presently at no cost...centos is a free fork of redhat, and freebsd has incorporated many of the technical advantages of solaris (zfs, dtrace etc) and osx (grand central dispatch, clang).
However, at the smaller end of scale, I'd now argue that there's minimal benefit in buying AIX over a supported Linux distributed for most organisations.
while some 'money men' don't trust 'free' software (I've witnessed this myself, someone told me I HAD to spend money on OS!).
If you want to get down-and-dirty with your operating system you'll find there are considerable differences with prioritisation, debugging-hooks, process-to-CPU binding and memory model optimisation, etc.
It's not because you pay for something it is good, this is what I trust.
certainly the money is for support and indemnification.
Of course Linux supports many of these features and evolves rapidly (although dtrace is unquestionably an advantage of Solaris over Linux).
There's a few specific scalability reasons which make AIX or Solaris a better choice than Linux for large systems.
For example, AIX 7 on POWER7 scales from 1 core through to 256 cores in a single operating system image, and 8TB of RAM.
Beyond that, there's technical niceties such as the AIX logical volume manager, or Solaris' ZFS storage system, which both make working with larger storage capacities than few hard drives worth much easier.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 is certified up to 32 processors and 256GB of RAM (though will theoretically support up to 1TB) on x64, but the performance increase generally drops off at a faster rate as you add processors in Linux than AIX or Solaris.
this is the fundamental value-proposition of redhat, who at this point is probably selling more support contracts for their linux product than ibm is for aix.