The performance will be determined by the internet connection you are receiving and specific hardware specification of your router.
Germany's most renowned IT magazine c't reported in December 2013 that the access point TP-Link TL-WA701ND only allows 15 WIFI clients (article in German).
All we have available in the beginning were the same Linksys AP units as shown in the original article.
If no such information exists then you can assume the above information.
If you are not sure or cannot find out those limits, and you find yourself rebooting the WiFi router to get performance.
Using Cheap Access Points, best way is to name them differently per location so loading can be split by connection to different APs.
The article does not contain statements about other access points or manufacturers, but it does not present this limit as something unique, rare, or surprising.
This all depends on what you want to do with your network.
When one of them was giving signs of problems I touched it and found that it was hot enough that I could not pick it up.
I do not know what the limits for this unit were but we were obviously exceeding it (we were running between 20 and 200 simultaneous connections).
After the 2010 earthquake in Port-au-Prince I set up a network for a medical crisis center.
So I would assume that other devices targeted for SOHO usage may have similar limits.
You will need to balance load over devices in that you can have 20 devices doing very little work fine, or 2 devices with very high load bottling your connection completely.
We had constant problems with them (especially the central router) and fried several.
The access point mentioned here even has features such as Multi-SSID WIFI, VLAN, and Power-over-Ethernet support, all of which I would primarily expect from an access point for professional usage in a larger network.
Note that it may not be apparent for which market segment a device is meant at first glance.
Time to setup a good router and multiple WiFi Access Points.
We had several acting as access points all feeding into one which was the connection to the Internet and the wired network.
Sound routers put a limit on the DHCP pool available, which you would have to look around your router settings to find (if it's there).
While from a technical standpoint you would expect a limit of maybe 255 (as others have mentioned), this seems to be not always the case.
The article further states that the limit is arbitrarily set by the manufacturer in the firmware because the target market of the device is SOHO (Small Office/Home), and that the limit is not mentioned neither in the manual nor in the technical specification.
It is claimed that with OpenWRT the limit should be eliminated, but using alternative firmware may not be acceptable or desired in all cases.
For example, on my router I have a listed range of about 100 for maximum performance, but I will never get close to this so it's largely irrelevant to me.
In theory you can have up to 255 devices connected to your router, but you will obviously see a performance hit.
Looking at the [albeit] small snippet of information provided on that router from your source I can't imagine you would notice any issues with the numbers you are working with.DCHP
Instead there might be much lower limits because of marketing / manufacturer politics.
The article suggests to request a definitive answer on the maximum number of supported clients from the manufacturer prior to buying.