3) Theoretical pass-through daisy-chaining of USB devices so I can plug my mouse via my keyboard into my printer, through my monitor's USB hub and into a single USB socket on my machine.
The disadvantage is that setting up serial connections may require expert knowledge and complex commands if poorly implemented.
Other convenient features include powering low-consumption devices without the need for an external power supply and allowing some devices to be used without requiring individual device drivers to be installed.
I plug and unplug the mouse on my laptop whenever I want to move it.
Serial ports are still used in these areas as they are simple, cheap and allow interoperability between devices.
4) I would not pack my laptop away with the mouse plugged in, but might forget to connect it before powering up (especially with fast resume from sleep).
Both of those things would be very annoying without plug-and-play.
If you can replace an older, larger, less-capable connection with a newer more widely used one, you do it.
Also, you can do silly things like combining a finger scanner and a wireless mouse together in one package.
1) USB socket is smaller, especially important on laptop and netbook devices.
(other than a specific USB hub or add-on eg in a monitor base)?
In computing, a serial port is a serial communication physical interface through which information transfers in or out one bit at a time (contrast parallel port).
Universal Serial Bus (USB) is a serial bus standard to interface devices.
Throughout most of the history of personal computers, data transfer through serial ports connected the computer to devices such as terminals or modems.
Who actualy has a pass-through USB port on anything?
Mice, keyboards, and other peripheral devices also connected in this way.
USB can connect computer peripherals such as mouse devices, keyboards, PDAs, gamepads and joysticks, scanners, digital cameras and printers.
USB is also used extensively to connect non-networked printers; USB simplifies connecting several printers to one computer.
USB was originally designed for personal computers, but it has become commonplace on other devices such as PDAs and video game consoles.
Personally, I loved the serial/parallel ports ... those 9 and 24 pin ports were mean bastards (strength-wise, USB's could really be a little stronger).
I still have (and use) a printer on one of those ...
In 2004, there were about 1 billion USB devices in the world.
Network equipment (such as routers and switches) often have serial ports for configuration.
I would think that you can have more functionality with a USB mouse like additional button support and higher response rates.
While such interfaces as Ethernet, FireWire, and USB all send data as a serial stream, the term "serial port" usually identifies hardware more or less compliant to the RS-232 standard, intended to interface with a modem or with a similar communication device.
For many computer peripheral devices the USB interface has replaced the serial port — as of 2007, most modern computers are connected to devices through a USB connection, and often don't even have a serial port.
A major component in the legacy-free PC, USB was designed to allow peripherals to be connected using a single standardised interface socket, to improve plug-and-play capabilities by allowing devices to be connected and disconnected without rebooting the computer (hot swapping).
(PS: I hardly ever plug an actual mouse in these days on my own machines as I use BlueTooth, but I do still use wired mice on client sites)
Because serial ports are legacy technology and you only really see them used for connections to switches/routers anymore.
However serial ports can still be found in industrial automation systems and some industrial and consumer products.
For many of those devices USB has become the standard connection method.
USB is intended to help retire all legacy serial and parallel ports.
2) More universal uses for the same socket means I can also disconnect my mouse temporarily (yes, shock horror I can work a Windows machine using only the keyboard) and use the socket for something that is more important at that particular moment.
The serial port is omitted for cost savings, and is considered to be a legacy port.