If you are ok with resetting the browser state, you can delete the %LOCALAPPDATA%\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data folder and check.
What could be causing this issue, and what steps should be taken to correct the issue?
The disadvantage is that I had to configure the layout of the displays again and correct the chosen main display again.
We've also performed virus scans to verify that there isn't anything there.
Clicking in the white space where those UI elements typically are has no result.
We've tried Restarting Chrome (killing the task completely), restarting her computer, and verified that she has no pending updates for Chrome (her version is the current most recent official Windows release).
I solved it by setting my display settings to "Duplicate these displays" and then back to "Extend these displays".
Willing to do a full uninstall/reinstall if necessary, but would prefer to avoid it if possible...
I normally install Chrome using Chrome for Enterprise msi in Program Files and reset the User Data folder if I have issues with Chrome.
Running Google Chrome Version 66.0.3359.139 (Official Build) (64-bit), on Windows 10 (x64).
Specifically, Chrome opens to her homepage (the default Google page), but all other UI elements are missing; specifically, the top bar (where tabs, user, and the minimize/maximize/close buttons normally are), the address bar (including back, forward, refresh, extensions, and the vertical ... button), and bookmarks bar are all missing.
I have found that clicking F11 to open to Full Screen mode, and then clicking it again to revert to normal brings these UI elements back, but that'll only last till she closes the window and opens it again.
If Chrome sync is on, once you sign in to chrome, the bookmarks etc should be downloaded back.
Is Chrome installed in the AppData folder or Program Files.
For me it was related to having multiple displays.
Chrome has been functioning perfectly fine on my wife's machine until the last day or two when suddenly, whenever she opens a new instance of Chrome, things have been behaving weirdly.