Without access to your switches, your options are a bit limited in chasing down network issues.
Has has been mentioned, tcpdump/wireshark and interface errors can help in this process as well.
You could also use Wireshark or tcpdump to look at the actual traffic and see what's happening when your DNS servers aren't talking, but all of this is more efficiently accomplished when you can monitor things from the network end rather than the server end.
It kinda sounds like you've got either a bad interface on a switch/server, or a rogue traffic source on the network.
A second risky option is to just power cycle everything, or things one at a time to see if fixes the problem.
However, a lone sysadmin that has gone on vacation and left the shop with no visibility into the network is a very bad situation.
Then run a constant ping against 3 targets, your router, your routers default gateway and google.com.
Without the ability to capture some spanned traffic or see interface stats, actually tracking either of those down would be neigh impossible.
If it is happening to all the switches, and is not purely a DNS problem, then I would look at the router, or the connection between the switches and the router.
This should at least tell you if your losing any packets along the way or if it's your internet or internal network having the problem.
The one thing you can 100% rely on is the probability that whatever can break when you're the only that can fix it is the the thing that is absolutely guaranteed to break when you leave for vacation.
If the admin forgot to commit the running config to the startup config last time they did something, you will likely be in trouble after the reboot.
Especially, in my personal order of suspicious devices: network devices, servers attached to more than one network, printers.
Traceroute to an internet site you know will be up.
Best advice though would be track down your sysadmin, thats why he/she is there...
I'd start by checking interfaces on the servers; look for dropped packets or collisions.
If you really needed to, you could reset the passwords on the switches, but be prepared to deal with the wrath of your admin when he gets back...
It sounds like something is dropping connections somewhere.
It is possible it might be some sort of broadcast storm like problem, but that is less likely I think, and you probably are not going to fix it if it is.
The best you can is to try to isolate the problem I think.
I was the sole network administrator for a multi-million dollar company for over 7 years (I have minions now =) and on-call 24/7/365 for pretty much that entire time and can say, pretty definitively, that if you've made yourself the only person that can do a certain thing, you can rest assured that you will be called whenever that thing needs doing.
I say this is risky because with lots of network equipment there is a running config, and a saved config.
After that post back if/when you've got the next answer.
If you have multiple switches, are the problems happening to machines hooked up to only one of the switches?