Also, I don't see mention of hardware-based solutions, like Seagate's Momentus FDE drive with management software by Wave Systems (or Secude's FinallySecure).
not lose password sync when a user is forced to change her Domain password on the road.)
It's not very well liked, as the performance impact it has on the system is noticeable unless you negate it with a faster drive such as 7200RPM or SSD.
We use BeCrypt DiskProtect, which met with the various requirements that were stipulated to us.
We'd like to look at two different types of solutions:
We're running Windows XP SP3 PCs on a domain and my understanding is that we will not be upgrading to Vista and have no current plans to upgrade to Windows 7.
It's quite easy to use and has a single sign-on feature like you are looking for.
Keyloggers, people watching what you are typing, the use of your standard password in all sorts of places mean that once they have one, they have full access to your "secure machine"
Same thing with BitLocker - it may be ruled out because of a lack of desire to upgrade Windows, but I'm interested in the job it does on Vista/Windows 7.
One uses single sign on (unless otherwise specified) and the other is not single sign on.
From a security point of view I beleive full disk encryption with single sign on is daft!
These products were selected to secure DAR (data-at-rest) and were all reviewed based on security needs, price, etc.
It might be useful to point out the products that were ultimately selected via the US Government's "SmartBuy" program.
We use Guardian Edge Encryption Plus where I work.
I actually work on two different systems / networks, both use BeCrypt.
The powers that be may rule out TrueCrypt because of its recent security vulnerability, but for the purpose of the question, I'd like to hear how well it meets these requirements.
I've been ask to look at full disk encryption software for our mobile users.
I can understand it from an ease and a user point of view, but I beleive having the seperate logons provide just that extra layer of security.
I've set it up and used it on several laptops and am impressed with how non-interfering it is.
This is a small shop, so ease of administration is important.
Conspicuously absent are: PGP WDE (I have a lot of respect for PGP, so I've no idea why they were omitted) and BitLocker (newer product, but deployable and manageable in enterprise environments, and very attractive with machines equipped with TPMs).
Aside from the initial encryption, it's operation is rarely noticed and (in my experience) never impacted the overall performance of the system.
New purchases could use these drives while existing machines used s/w-based FDE (I believe FinallySecure provides an integrated management for these mixed environments).