I have searched into the OS logs and into the SQL server error logs but I find nothing relevant that could give a hint about what is causing the SQL server to become unresponsive.
As a consequence, I have to do a stop-and-start process with the SQL server service and after that the instance will become available once again.
Try running sp_Blitz, a free health check for your SQL Server (disclaimer - I'm the author).
Turn that on so you can have an administrative "Back door" that ought to be up even if nothing else is.
I've got a hunch that you're running into THREADPOOL waits, and sp_Blitz alerts about that.
You can also run it with @OutputType = 'markdown' if you want to share the results here at Stack.
Also don't forget to check your WINDOWS event logs on the server.
Sometimes SQL Server events are written there, as well.
My suggestion would be to enable the default trace for 10 minutes or so before the specific time you are experiencing the issue, then disable a few minutes after, and examine the trace file.
I can RDP the server but I cannot connect neither from SSMS nor from the application.
You might also set up a scheduled job to run this query once every 5 minutes during business hours (or whenever the lock-ups occur), and either send you the data or store it in a table somewhere.
The first thing you need to do is set up SQL Server so you can get in during the lock-up.
From there, try to see what processes are running during the lock-ups.
I manage a virtual SQL server that holds several databases for some applications that run in a front-end server.
Anyone who might have experienced this in the past?
From that, you might see if something shows in the blocking_session_id column or wait_type columns near the time of your error.
The issue I'm going through is that, at a specific moment during the day, the server gets stuck and the instance becomes unreachable.
THREADPOOL means your SQL Server ran out of worker threads to service incoming queries.
From there, you'll be able to see which queries are burning up all the worker threads - typically it's a blocking problem.
It won't show up in the OS or SQL Server error logs.
It may hurt performance a little bit for the time period, but seems that shouldn't be much of a concern at this time.
If you have a specific time of the day when it gets stuck, a simple SQL Profiler trace should help identify what processes are being executed at that time.
Perhaps there's something in the sys.dm_exec_sessions or sys.dm_exec_connections views that can point to what's locking, assuming the database knows what's going on.
When it's happening, you'll be able to connect to SQL Server using the Dedicated Admin Connection (DAC) (disclaimer: that's a blog post on my site.)
The DAC is a set-aside CPU scheduler used just for emergency troubleshooting.
Brent Ozar explains the Remote Dedicated Admin Connection here.