This caused units to show a false failure on lost packets.
Rolling up excess wire in a coil can greatly impact its electrical properties and cause interference by literally turning them into inductors and antennas.
A coil of wire, usually around a ferrite (iron) core is an electrical choke or high pass filter.
Our testers sre designed to test 12 units at a time.
Environment is the critical factor wherever noise/contamination/interference is suspect.
Ok, I have tested this in the worst case scenario.
To find if your environment is a potential influence for your coiled wire or DSL setup.
Pairs of wires are generally twisted so that 'on average', both are occupying the same physical space and are exposed to the same magnetic effects.
Unshielded power cables have been known to cause problems.
I dont think ethernet really puts out enough power to create a strong enough magnetic field to cause issues.
The longer cables were re-used elsewhere without issues.
We used shorter ethernet cables to avoid coiling and the problem has been resolved.
Packet loss and errors are most often caused by the environment, not just by faulty hardware.
If you hear feedback, that is RF and a cause for concern.
The resulting forces cancel, very similar to someone pulling equally hard on both ends of a rope on a pulley.
A common rule of thumb is to never bend it with a radius under four times the cable's diameter.
That is exactly what we send along Ethernet cables.
I also experienced a coil of 300 ohm antenna wire with no core effectively filtering out UHF TV channels.
I work for a company that tests and refurbs cable modems, gateways and routers.
but you will not effect any significant loss in signal quality by putting away an ethernet cable like this., unless you are subjecting it to enough abuse for mechanical stress to become an issue.
not good, Is there an unshielded radio or speaker?
A coiled wire is basically a magnet for problems (pardon the pun).
This simple choke coil principal backs up Janes real world tests, a tight coil of wire can filter out high frequencies and drop packets.
Rolling up LAN cables like this is perfectly safe.
If you need to take up slack, don't coil Ethernet cables, layer back and forth.
However I have never seen excessive coiled wire cause a problem.
Take an old AM Radio, tune it to the high end around (1600) and move around your area.
The coil in your image does not look like it is anywhere near violating that.
I had exposure to these building crossovers for speakers.
When a single wire is rolled up, magnetic fields from whatever source induce currents, adding noise to the signal.
This phenomenon also occurs in ethernet cables, but the latter has multiple wires inside, carrying currents in opposite directions.
Are you using a DSL connection that is susceptible to external interference?
Are there halogen lights or unshielded motors/heating elements etc in the vicinity?