(And no, the disk failures had nothing to do with controller firmware bugs.)
The 320 is only available as a single socket, with low memory, so its not a great virtualization server.
We have had nothing but trouble with the three we have in use: one DOA, one defective system board and two cases of defective or incompatible RAM).
ILO is standard and the systems are compatible with HP's management agents.
470065-153) are sub-$2000, well-stocked with redundant power, RAID cache and eight drive bays.
I've been running Citrix XenServer on three DL360 G5 servers for the past two years(ish).
They really are cheaper in every possible sense of the word, and it shows.
Every incident cost me about three days on the phone, writing e-mails or debugging the hardware.
If your reseller works it properly, the cost of the 360 shouldn't be much more than the 160.
On the other hand we have about 15 DL380 G6 in various projects (all of them doing virtualisation with KVM) and the worst that happened was a surprisingly large number (six or seven) of hard disk drives failing after a few months and one system board with a defective DIMM slot.
They each host 15 virtual on local disk storage :\ The eight cores idle at 10% usage all day long, the CPU graph never moves.
This is probably too late for the original questioner, but...
Consider the HP SL range too if you know your external port requirements in advance, almost the same server-to-U ratio of blades but without the initial investment.
The MSRP will be higher, but HP offers more programs to discount the cost of the 360.
It will save you headaches and many support hotline calls.
If you can, please go with the 300 series, especially for virtualisation.
HP support is great but it takes quite a while and many hoops to jump through before they accept that it's a hardware problem and not anything else.
The disks don't work very hard either, but they're all light virtuals, no database servers or anything hardcore.
You also get three years of warranty for servers and hard disk drives with the 300 series as well as next business day support on site, without any additional support packs.
This has nothing to do with virtualisation but if you can you should really try to avoid the 100 series.
IMHO those are killer arguments against the 100 series.