Just make a "happy hour" when users can use any social network they want facebook, hi5 etc, so that they will know that f.example at 14.00 when  they can make a cofee break, eat donuts and check what's going on and be social.
First off, do you have a policy, backed at a high level, that forbids Facebook?
Usually just letting someone know you can tell what they are up to is enough to get it under control.
Anyone with the smarts to use Tor or other "clever" ways around should also be smart enough to use Facebook on their mobile phone, which you can't block.
This should also detail what steps may be taken to enforce the AUP (monitoring usage/auditing machines etc) and what the sanctions for breaking the AUP are.
I completely agree with the "treat them like adults" mindset.
The harder you try to block it, the harder the users will try to get access to it.
Dont forget that anyway they can go in with mobiles and 3g which you cannot close.
my company doesn't require us to block any social networking sites, and we have zero problems with users spending too much time on them.
What you have isn't really a technical problem, it's a management problem, don't try to make it a technical problem.
If you worry about circumvention then you'll need to start investigating blocking Tor or Freegate, and then the next thing and the thing after that - but I'd advise monitoring your network for evidence that these, or other circumvention techniques are in use, and a friendly word in the ear of the guilty party on first instance, and their manager on the second.
I'll assume there is a banning policy in place though.
Otherwise they will do it hidden and all day long...
If not, then  you may be treading on the toes of your boss, or their boss, who actually want to use Facebook.
Many companies are happy to accept reasonable levels of social network use at work anyway, and view an all out block as counter productive.
You need to have an acceptable use policy that clearly defines what users can and can't do with the resources provided by your organisation.