Performance on our oldest machines (P4s with 512MB of RAM) is acceptable.
I have been using Symantec Corporate versions for years, but the latest version (Symantec Endpoint Protection 11.x) is totally over-complicated, and aimed at enterprises with 1000s of computers.
ForeFront Client Security is easy to use, easy to deploy and easy to manage via AD Group Policy.
I want to centrally manage Anti-Virus for all the computers with some sort of control panel.
I am a solo IT employee for a small company that has a couple of servers and 10 workstations (Windows and Mac, Macs do not run AV software).
It will work with an existing IIS installation or install Apache, if need be.
Decent spam detection/removal, excellent virus detection/removal, and better prevention of trojans when the Reputation Service is used (browser URL monitor).
Symantec can easily take an hour to clean out the registry.
I have only used so many - we are currently testing some out as we prepare to do a new roll out ourselves.
Trend Micro also offers hosted email solutions, in addition to their product that sits on an Exchange Box (WFBS Advanced), though my experience is all with the latter.
The server side is a bit heavy though, but updates are deployed via WSUS and Windows Update.
Can anyone recommend something reliable, centrally managed, and simple?
It will use an existing mail server to drop reports and alarms, with a small amount of adjustability in threshold levels.
So far, AVG is working great in our tests and everyone that I speak to really like it.
I've even been able to recover a TM installation that crashed (thick dust bunny lodged in CPU fan creating thermal event), just by starting the install again, uninstalling, then reinstalling.
Our current install (version 4) of ESET NOD32 seems to be working a treat, it just sits in the background and doesn't interfere too much - you get a quick start-up popup, and the occasional taskbar message saying an update has occurred, but that's it.
It is loaded on the server, licensed and administered centrally.
I also have had to clean up after multiple Symantec explosions, and a few Trend Micro explosions, and Trend Micro is by FAR the easiest to tame.
Have heard some grumblings about the latest release, but no experience of it myself.
The administration console runs from Internet Explorer (ActiveX controls), so any computer able to access the server via TCP can be used to launch the console.
Trend Micro's Worry Free Business Security 5.1 (soon to be version 6) is a great replacement, in my opinion.