I'd check in the Security Center (which should detail if any are active).
After verifying those two things, test that the Terminal Server is running and bound to a TCP port on your computer.
As far as connecting to this PC via Remote Desktop goes, please verify two things and then run a test for me.
I am having an issue with a machine on my company network where it has joined the domain OK and the machine itself can happily connect with play with other machines on the network but nothing can connect to it (or indeed ping it).
Also, you might want to see if any TCP/IP filtering settings have been enabled for this NIC.
Microsoft Support Article 299357 (I'm only allowed to post one URL) describes how the listening port for RDP may have been changed from 3389 to some number.
To do this, type the following at a command prompt:
The machine is running Windows XP, the firewall is off and it is getting an IP on our network.
This wouldn't be anything specific to RDP, it would be a more general networking issue.
You could always run something like this to see if its bound to a different port:
Try setting the XP machine to a static IP and see if you can communicate with it then.
If I understand you correctly, you have a WinXP machine that you cannot ping, connect to with RDP, or otherwise route traffic to.
You need to have both Client for MS Networks and File and Print Sharing enabled.
Check the properties of your NIC in Control Panel, Network Connections.
If it doesn't, Terminal Service isn't running, or is running on a different port.
Like another member mentioned, it's possible this computer has another software firewall blocking inbound traffic, aside from the Windows Firewall.
When you ping and remote be sure to try using the IP address instead of the name in case DNS is not working correctly.
As far as not being able to ping this computer goes...can you upload the IPCONFIG for both machines?
If you can't ping it, which failure message do you get?
What I would like to achieve to to be able to remote desktop onto it (obviously I have turned this option on in the settings)
I am a bit of a networking n00b so I don't know what other information is relevant.
If nothing else, you could try resetting the TCP/IP settings...Microsoft Support Article 299357.