Even before computer analysis, several endgames were thought to take more than fifty moves, and the rule was slightly extended in those circumstances (probably the most famous is the rook and bishop vs rook endgame).
Wikipedia has a nice summary of some interesting points here.
Their solutions turn out to be measurably better than the solutions given by top Go players.
Other examples are listed in the Wikipedia page on solved games; notable among them are connect four and nine men's morris.
Using Conway's theory of games, they show how to analyze certain kinds of Go endgames.
Algorithmically, these tablebases are not very interesting; they are generated mostly by brute force.
Here is an online tablebase I've used in the past that works for up to six pieces.
This perhaps doesn't seem like an answer to your question, but if an expert (such as Marion Tinsley) loses to a computer program, then the computer must have found a "more optimal" move.
This is another interesting article, summarizing some effects of seven-piece tablebases on endgame theory.
The best known example is probably checkers (also known as draughts), which has been solved recently in 2007 (the game is a draw).
However, they have contributed to several aspects of endgame theory.
As the number of positions requiring these moves became larger, these extensions were dropped and the normal 50-move rule was reinstated in all cases.
(Not quite an answer to your problem, as those latter solutions were probably never claimed to be optimal.)
I particularly like the mutual zugzwang shown in the last position.
Chess endgame techniques have been greatly enhanced by the advent of endgame tablebases.
Modern analysis has shown that some endgames take several hundred moves .
These discoveries also had implications for the "fifty move rule," which states that after fifty moves without a capture or pawn advance, either player can claim a draw.
Additionally, several chess endgames have been solved.
Endgame tablebases are lookup tables that solve chess when there are no more than (currently) seven pieces on the board.