It only gets tricky, if it more complex than a single class weight.
No reference is going to solve this decision for you.
There is only one answer once you manage to squeeze out a cost-matrix from your business stakeholders.
However, for my case in the image on the right, I do not know if the methods I have chosen are the standard principled methods that are normally used.
Optimizing anything which isn't the cost-matrix is a rather academical exercise.
There isn't a perfect metric, since actually it depends on the business' cost-ratio.
Model the real world impact of you model and you'll get answers!
I have found a lot of reference material for the ROC curve with a single threshold and while there are other techniques available to determine the performance, the ones mentioned in this question is definitely considered a standard approach.
Bottomline, the question here is two-fold: (1) Provide methods to evaluate the optimal parameter set and overall performance in my problem scenario, (2) Provide reference that claims the suggested methods to be a standard approach for the given scenario.
The image on the left shows a standard ROC curve formed by sweeping a single threshold and recording the corresponding True Positive Rate (TPR) and False Positive Rate (FPR).
In the second case, all you need is the cost-matrix and the result follows naturally.
Together, it produces 8 points as depicted on the graph.
The cost-matrix has one parameter and depends really on the business.
In that sense, ROCAUC is actually a pretty meaningless artifical metric, despite being popular.
PS: I personally consider TPR-FPR the best bet in absence of a defined cost matrix.
There is an interpretation which relies on the fitted model's probabilities being correctly estimated, but if you want to get real, only cost matrices matter.
In practice, I intend to have thousands of possible combinations of 100s of parameters, but the concept remains the same in this down-scaled case.
In first case, you have to scan this audience's publications, see what they use, and use the same.
I found no such reading material for the scenario presented on the right.
In the case of the ROC curve on the left, this is done easily using the following methods:
In a business anything can be estimated in terms of money.
The image on the right shows my problem setup where there are 3 parameters, and for each, we have only 2 choices.
The discussion between performance metrics is missing the point.
The answer depends a lot on what you want to achieve: