The shared hosting providers listed there are all relatively cheap (< $10/month) and give you the opportunity to use CPAN.
The bottom line is that EC2/S3 are VERY useful tools, but they're really only for production deployments or very serious individuals who have had experience with production deployments.
Also given that I don't want to lose all the data if the instance crashes, I should also upload the csv files to Amazon S3.
Check out cloudkick.com and http://digitalmines.com (disclaimer: I work in Digital Mines).
For bonus points I suggest you explore Dancer or Catalyst to make your scarpings available from a web browser and learn perl webdev in the process.
Then learn about using unix crontab to run your script on a schedule, or learn something like POE or AnyEvent to make your scraper a service (search CPAN for the last two).
You could use one of the Cloud Management Apps to either do this for you through the UI or submit a support request to get a sysadmin to do it for you - if you want to use AWS that is.
If you actually want the data in S3, uploading to S3 makes sense.
I understand that currently EC2 is free to new signups for individuals, but you are hitting a finishing nail with a pneumatic jackhammer.
If shared hosting won't work and you want to spend more money I suggest linode.com as an intermediate step.
I would like to install these in the cloud and get them running in an automated way so that they will run without my intervention.
The scripts are basic web scrapers that go to a variety of websites, get data and then save daily as csv files.
If your goal is just to keep the existing data, an alternative is using Amazon's Elastic Block Storage to have a persistent mounted drive available.
As for storage, you can buy a backup package for your shared hosting and you should have plenty of free storage with your package (usually at least 10GB).
If you need to backup to S3 for some specific reason you can do that as well, there are even perl modules on CPAN to help with this.
EC2 also assumes that you can handle situations by yourself, there is no one to bail you out.
EC2 requires a skill level beyond simply being able to administer a unix-style operating system.
I am not terribly versed in LINUX nor do I know Perl/Python well.
If all you are doing is scraping websites, I would suggest an alternate solution:
This way you have somebody else worried about the server operating system, and you only worry about your scripts.
Instead, use a shared web hosting service that supports perl, those described at the helpful http://perlsharedhosting.com/ would be good.
I am currently running a few perl and python scripts on a windows pc and would like to port over to the Amazon EC2 servers running 64-bit LINUX.
Because it sounds like you don't have this experience I would highly recommend you go another route.
You are responsible for your install of linux, but you have more support backup than you would with EC2.
Keep in mind that these shared hosting packages often include unlimited transfer and almost unlimited storage, EC2 does not include these things.