Also If you only have 1 router on your LAN, and no virtual machines on your windows box, you probably only need 1 IP.
So as long as you have that OFF and make backups you should be pretty safe.
I really don't want to change the IP address on my android's Kodi remote control app every time the DHCP server hands out a new lease.
I have two devices I'd like to "freeze" an IP for.
As well, should you switch router vendors, ISPs, or network topologies at some future date, your devices will not become unreachable until manual IP address changes are made.
For the printer, I just want to be rid of the constant dynamic IP re-connection headaches.
I'd like the laptop's IP to be frozen, because part of what I use it for is Kodi streaming using Chromecast.
you are much more likely to be at data loss risk from some website with the recent Javascript variability in the intel systems.
ie the device registers its name, the router assigns and IP to the name and shows in there routers DHCP client list .. and yet you are not able to ping the device by name.
If you do manually configure a host on a DHCP network, it's advisable to either assign it out of a block of IP addresses that is not in the DHCP server's pool, or mark the IP addresses reserved so that another device does not get assigned one of those IP addresses by mistake.
You can checkout VMWare Player if you do need 2 virtual ips on same box.
By freeze, I mean either static IP through Windows Networking, DHCP reservation on the router, or both.
The windows firewall should be fine to open up if you have a good router which will handle incoming traffic.
You asked about setting more than one static ip on windows side.
And in any case, I don't believe I can set more than one static IP on the Windows side, right?
If you have 2 cards (or ethernet connections) you can set 2 physical IP addresses and then you can customize your routing table to direct traffic in different ways.
Fairly new to networking concepts, have read the thread DHCP Reservation vs Static IP address, and still have a "dumb" question that wasn't asked there:
There is actually a way around this by adding a . to the end of the device name (ie "titan."
So as long as a device can reference another device by name, you should always use name vs static ip.
Just to be clear DHCP reservation is IP assignment though a device name.
Would like it even more if you could include the "why" part of whatever answers you may have.
instead of "titan") and you can actually sort it out by having windows add the .
The first device is my Windows 10 laptop, the second a wifi printer.
very few reasons why you need to use a static ip but if you want to why not.
Mainly file sharing is the vulnerability in Windows systems from an internal device inside your LAN.
it I would think just a DHCP reservation should be fine (?).
Static is simply stating I want to reference it by IP instead of name.
Making an IP reservation in your router's DHCP config ought to be sufficient for ensuring that your service-providing devices' IP addresses do not change unnecessarily.
Last silly question, do I need to worry about Windows Firewall, opening ports there and what have you?
But unless you have a virtual machine on your computer, I don't see how its necessary.
You maybe able to ping linux servers but not windows machines.
Also you can setup virtual ip addresses with ethernet card or connection.
However ... Having said that, i have had issues with name resolution on some routers.