Presumably some low-level Windows/Lenovo software layer was capturing middle-button events and interpreting them as scroll commands.
Thanks UltraNav/Lenovo for offering all kinds of patented obscure scrolling with you eye-lashes-options and thereby rendering the settings rediculously complex.
While Alan and docno jointly have written a complete answer satisfying the question.
I was able to paste in Ubuntu using the middle button right after setting the control to "Neither."
After many painfull months without linux middle button action I decided to insist on finding a solution for my lenovo T510, Win7 host, debian guest.
side question: does virtualbox has the same problem?
After hours of trying and search, I finally found it: The "Neither" setting as described by Alan alone is not enough for my model (and I assume for other's too).
Ubuntu/Gnome doesn't natively treat the middle mouse button as a scrolling wheel.
I had the same problem in a VMware Ubuntu guest on a ThinkPad X220 running Windows 7.
After a few hours of research I found that you can fix this by letting virtualbox completely propagate the USB device (your keyboard) to the guest.
I have a dual boot (ubuntu,win7) from win7 i log into the ubuntu's partition.
In the mouse control panel, you can set TrackPoint scrolling to either "Scrolling," "Magnifying Glass," or "Neither."
I wish I had seen this earlier as I wouldn't had to download any Windows drivers for my USB keyboard in the first place.
For a graphically utility, you can install GPointing Device Settings by running
You can fix this by disabling TrackPoint scrolling in the Windows control panels.
I think it does something odd like paste from clipboard.
You also have to set the "scrolling type" (for me, in the "settings" next to the "Neither" setting) to "smooth" !
when i try to paste with middle click, the middle mouse button is ignored.
With the default mouse/trackpoint settings, the middle button wouldn't register at all when running xev in Ubuntu.
It does not fix "Control Scrolling" which is scrolling you do when holding the middle button and moving the trackpoint to scroll a page.
You can resolve this by turning off scrolling altogether.
See: http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_configure_the_TrackPoint