In general, for IMAP, it is just slow with larger mailboxes.
I dealt a bit differently with the same issue, where a user wants to use Outlook with Google Apps for Business.
If you do choose to go this route, come back and I can offer some concrete advice on how to make the move, because I encountered numerous pitfalls the first time I went from IMAP to hosted Exchange, including who I would go with and why.
It lets you set a hard mailbox size limit for Outlook.
I would also recommend that you teach users to not store too many items in one folder, since that seems to affect performance.
This will make Outlook download only 1000 latest emails.
www.google.com/apps/intl/en/business/outlook_sync.html
They have a large mailbox that they want to sync over IMAP, but we want to not sync the whole thing in order to keep Outlook performing well.
You can just go to Gmail settings and under "Forwarding and POP/IMAP" tab, change option "Limit IMAP folders to contain no more than this many messages" to 1000 (which is the lowest number).
You can specify a number of latest messages to sync in
Gmail > Settings > Forwarding and POP/IMAP > Limit IMAP folders to contain no more than this many messages > set desired number.
https://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=184126
Since you're using Gmail, you might consider the Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlook.
Some of the users have as much as 12GB of mail, and it synchronizes header changes in seconds from a server 3000 miles away....only after that does it pull the bodies and attachments.
For example, if you set the limit to 1 GB, the Sync tool will begin removing older messages when you hit the limit (the emails are still available in Gmail though!)
Ultimately, if you want excellent performance with large mailboxes, and quick synchronization times, I can't recommend hosted Exchange enough.
You can only choose to download headers, or full e-mails (HIGHLY recommended in my opinion).
A lot of email clients (especially those on smartphones) allow you to say "Only sync the past .... days" where you can choose a week, a month, two months, etc.
I have multiple clients using it, including a lawyer's office where they must keep everything, and it performs extremely well.
Does Outlook allow for this, or is there any way that I can fake the functionality?