If you really feel like migrating the first thing you should learn is how to NOT use any windows softwares and look for a linux alternative software to do what you desire, for each software you may use on windows you could find at least 1 or 2 similar for linux.
But I have some programs that will require use of Wine.
I have a laptop running on Ubuntu and other running on Windows XP.
Applications that require .NET will require you to use Mono, and even then, there will still be applications that you cannot run natively in Ubuntu.
That being said, you may want to take John's advice and make sure your Windows system is more secure.
Microsoft releases a new malware scanner every month through Windows Update called the Microsoft Malicious Software Removal Tool that automatically runs and cleans your system out during the update process.
So, I want to compare a Ubuntu Machine with Wine (and a lot of softwares installed using wine) and a machine on XP with respect to viruses.
Going through the trouble of getting all your applications to run under WINE just doesn't sound like a good solution to me.
Keep in mind that you are not exempt from viruses just because you run Linux.
Ubuntu, while similar on the desktop to Windows, is quite different in general.
However, since the majority of the world's computers run Windows - especially businesses - then from the point of view of the virus developer, it makes sense to target the largest audience: Windows.
Migrating to Ubuntu might be a big change in how you view your desktop Operating System.
Windows, being used more heavily by end users and enterprise environments, naturally has more malicious software made for it.
It is quite common to hear that virus doesn't affect Ubuntu.
Aside from that, not every application that works on Windows is going to work on Ubuntu with just Wine.
You'll also want to make sure you area applying Windows Updates on a regular basis.
If you are planning to migrate and will be tied to WINE then you should not, instead take the proper messures on the WINDOWS system you have to secure it and the right steps not to infect it.
There are still viruses out there for the OS, and more and more are being developed as it gains popularity.
It's not that a computer virus cannot affect Ubuntu - it's still a piece of software which means it can be hijacked.
For a home user, you can use Microsoft's Security Essentials for free to help keep your computer from being infected.