If the VLANs seem to be working ok (connect to the SSIDs one at a time), then temporarily change the trunk port back to untagged (regular port) and find the setting in the Access Point web interface that ties the management interface on the AP itself to whatever VLAN you want.
This is to help the switch understand how to forward packets.
The reason why I want to do this is because I have a Ubiquiti NanoStation loco M2 plugged into a port providing a wireless lan (which requires untagged frames), but I also want to configure a tagged vlan for managing the loco (i.e.
Generally speaking, tagging only occurs when a L2 packet moves from one vlan to the core switch engine and only if it needs to be carried over another trunk.
I have installed OpenWrt on a MikroTik Routerboard RB750UP (AR7240 CPU with AR9330 built in switch).
Also you do not have to assign all members to those ports.
You should not generally specify subinterfaces (ie tags) on interfaces unless you expect it to be bound on that system with an IP on that interface.
How do I configure an untagged and tagged vlan on the same port?
As the image shows, the NanoStation loco is plugged into port 3 and has a management IP of 192.168.20.10/24 configured on a vlan with vid=3.
Than TAG all your other VLANs if you want them passed on that port.
I think what you need here is a trunk on your interface with your admin and data vlan configured on.
OpenWrt BARRIER BREAKER (Bleeding Edge, r36085), built with a custom configuration
If you only need to pass one vlan then set it as untagged for a device that only needs that vlan.
I don't think it is possible to have a port with tagging enable AND without..
Either you are tagging on that port,with à single id
I've also tried manually configuring the vlan/port assignment and tags using swconfig, but in each permutation, it either leaves port 3 out of one of the vlans, or it forces port 3 to be tagged in both vlans.
Generally speaking, even untagged ports need to be assigned a NATIVE VLAN id AND only if this is different from the default id of 1.
Your other ports can be see to there appropriate PVID / Physical Vlan and be tagged.
If you do not provide a vlan and it is bridged, it's considered a routed interface.
I have included additional details below, but my question is:
If you are sure the VLAN actually works ok (you should have just tested it), you can set the AP management interface to this VLAN.
The solution is to setup the VLAN IDs on the AP first, then test them by temporarily changing the managed switch port to a trunk port with the tagged VLANs, to test if the VLANs actually work and are setup correctly in the router.
I have successfully configured non-tagged vlans and tagged vlans independently, but not for the same port.
It also acts as a wireless bridge/access point for the 192.168.100.0/24 network.
Either you are in access mode with an id configured (no tagging),
I think the common point of confusion (in this situation, and for users who are somewhat new to VLANs) is that access points by default do not tag the management interface on the AP itself to any VLAN id, so you can lose the ability to configure the AP from a web interface if the managed switch port that the AP is connected to is changed to tagged with a few VLANs (trunk).
As a result, I cannot ping the loco's management IP.
Only assign the vlan members to ports that you want the traffic passed on.
Finally, change the switch port back to a trunk port, tagging each VLAN you want, one for each SSID, and/or the management VLAN if that's not on Wifi.
Here's a link to a diagram of (what I believe to be) the layout of the RB750's AR7240/AR9330 switch.
Accordingly, port 3 on the router has an untagged vlan configured for the 192.168.100.0/24 network and a tagged vlan for the 192.168.20.0/24 management network (with vid=3).
Either you are tagging multiple id to isolate trafic, it is called a trunk
Either you configure multiple id on the port in access mode.
Now, you should have VLANs working and access to the AP web interface at the same time.
When a packet flows out of the switch engine it is stripped of the tag and forwarded via standard Ethernet frames.
For this.. Best practice is to assign the Native VLAN or PortVlan ID on that specific port to VLAN for the NanoStation.
Keep in mind the port configured on the other equipement must accept tagged frame on the specific id vehiculate by the trunk
After rebooting the router, swconfig shows the following switch configuration.
Here's what I'm trying to achieve with the below config: