BUy a decent server that ALSO does virtualization SAN.
The best strategy is to search the VMware Compatibility Guide for entry level (but business grade) NAS products (e.g.
from Iomega, QNAP, Thecus etc) and then check out their support forums to see if they are known to be problematic.
If that is still too high a budget (btw., I run a setup like that - very happy with it), you can use a Thecus / QNAP etc.
If the basic SAN unit holds 15 drives, how much does it cost to add the 16th?
They are great entry level iSCSI SAN devices that would be ideal for your use case.
The boxes are well supported on ESX or any other hypervisor you might choose
If it is going to be a mixed use SAN, what is the performance needs of your use cases?
BTW, i've got a quote for an MD3000i with 4TB+ of SATA II 1TB drives (with sparing, RAID5) in the $7K range.
In your planning make sure to take into account the cost to expand beyond the basic SAN unit.
I Think this gives you a lot better valuie for the money than buying a dedicated box.
Their performance and availability wont match either the PS 4000 or the MD3000i (unless you buy a NAs that costs more or less the same) but if you are willing to live with that there are cheaper options.
AND noise - actually given 2 decent servers and a QNAP - you can make without server room.
Can you add a cheaper disk tray/chassis, or in the case of the Equallogic do you have to buy an entire additional SAN unit?
Before you commit to a SAN, look at getting a NetApp NAS (can use iSCSI or NFS).
I'm no expert on equallogic, but Dell's md3000i might cover all your needs:
15 drives in the basic setup, and you can expand it with up to 2 (or maybe even 3, can't remember) MD1000 boxes, 15 drives in each.
As far as cheaper options are concerned you could go the NAS route, there are quite a few entry level NAS devices that are certified by VMware that are quite cheap.
If it is (and if they will support you reusing your existing drives) then by all means go for it.
Deduplication technology, plug and play off-site hot/cold failover down the road.
As far as configuration and on going management are concerned they are about as easy as it gets, and if you do decide you need to grow\expand your SAN at any stage they are really easy to extend.
The QNAP SS839 looks really nice - as does the 859. put in fast discs WD Velociraptor) and it should be "good enough" in a positive sense.
I can't give you much better advice than that as I've never used one of these in a production environment.
I haven't priced an EQL PS4000 recently but I'm surprised that it's significantly less expensive than the MD3000i.