Pure distance vector protocols are rare; the only one really remaining in any sort of use is RIP.
EIGRP, a Cisco proprietary protocol, is also technically distance vector, but it makes use of several optimisations that allow it to overcome the traditional shortcomings of distance vector protocols.
Are you looking for faster convergence time in a diverse route environment?
If its an external network then the answer is probably BGP ( but you wouldn't be asking in that case ).
Distance vector protocols do not distribute any topology information; they simply advertise the next hop to a route, along with a cost.
(increasing stabilty) x (decreasing latency) = (weighted score for a route)
If you have a single router which supports all of your LAN environments and your ISP circuit, then a default route to your ISP would be more than sufficient.
Effectively, each device builds a database of the full network topology, and uses this database to determine the best path to each destination network.
RIP can still be used on tiny networks or to redistribute routing from simple devices to more complex devices ( or to inject default routes )
The two major link-state protocols in use are OSPF and IS-IS; both are based around an implementation of Dijkstra's algorithm.
OSPF is the more well-known of the two; IS-IS tends to be found more in service provider networks.
If you need complex traffic engineering and you have a complex network with diverse routes and very different link speeds, and if you are in a 100% cisco environment, you might want to consider eigrp.
First -- why are you considering a routing protocol?
I seem to recall this old formula for just this kind of thing:
As mentioned in another answer, if you are going to be exchanging routes with a 3rd party, BGP is the protocol of choice.
If interoperability between vendors is a requirement, OSPF may be a better choice.
If you are running an all Cisco network, EIGRP can be brought up with very little manual configuration.
If you just want to redistribute a bunch of directly connected routes between a bunch of routers, rip is probably fine.
There are quite a few routing devices that only support RIP, such as many wireless APs and cheapo routing switches.
I 100% agree with james -- use the routing protocol based on the requirements not based on the technology.
Now days the right answer is practically always OSPF if its an internal network.
In terms of which protocol type you should use, it depends on your requirements.
I guess you could consider ISIS if you want job security...
Link-state protocols function by advertising each router's connected interfaces to every other device in the routing domain.
Personally I would choose your routing protocol not the way it works.
At no point does the actual algorithm used for determining a route or preventing loops really enter into the picture.
One last point: dynamic routing protocols are useful only when your topology is redundant, and you need automatic failover.
In general, unless you are being forced to do so by a vendor, RIP should not be used.
Otherwise, if you have a complex network and diverse routes and you want reasonable convergence times, you really only have OSPF as a choice.
Are you redistributing routes in a multirouter environment?