Typically this is called a parent/child relationship.
Let's start with definitions then go into differences.
A foreign key is a column or group of columns that relate two tables together.
This should clarify things for you:- https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-gb/library/ms179610.aspx
Consider the above example: in the table Projects the column Manager is a foreign key for an Employee table.
There can be multiple foreign keys on a table and in fact a foreign key can even relate a table back to itself.
If an employee can manage more than one project, then different rows in the Project table have the same value in the column Manager.
This relationship is one of the cornerstones of the relational part of the RDBMS (Relational DataBase Management System).
In SQL Server none of the values can be NULL but I can't say for certain that is true in other DBMSs.
Can a foreign key be a primary key in another table?
The column(s) that make up the Primary Key can be the same column(s) that are used in a Foreign Key or even multiple Foreign Keys but they don't have to be.
So for example a child table will have a Parent_Id column that refers back to the Parent table.
Suppose that you have a table Projects, with columns ProjectId, Name, Description, Manager, Budget, and also a table SpecialProjects, that contains additional information about certain special projects, with other columns, referenced by other tables, etc.
A foreign key in a table B that refers to a table A is a column such that all its values must be present also in the primary key column of A.
So you have in this table a foreign key for the Project table, which contains the “general” informations about those special project.
As you can see they really have nothing to do with each other.
I have have looked for an answer for my questions everywhere but they seem confusing to me.Can a foreign key be a primary key in the same table?
This foreign key, let’s call it FkProjectId, is also a primary key for the SpecialProjects table.
Can a foreign key take values that repeat themselves?
A candidate key is a key comprised of a column or group of columns that uniquely identify the row.
So, the question is meaningless if you intend that a foreign key is two different column (this of course is impossible), while the answer to this question is always “yes” if you intend that the values of the foreign keys are also values in a primary key in another table.
The Parent table must related by one of the Candidate Keys but that does not have to be the Primary Key.