Q1:  If I just install this 4000MHz DDR4 SDRAM into the motherboard, will the BIOS be smart enough to automatically configure the memory controller (speed and timings) so:  (A): the memory will work, and (B): the timings will be at the appropriate lower values to get maximum possible speed from the SDRAM (or close)?
I have some 4000MHz DDR4 SDRAM with stated timings of 20-20-20-40 that I want to install into a motherboard with a CPU that only supports 2000MHz DDR4 SDRAM (due to the memory controller).
However you shouldn't need to do this, as stated above the BIOS should be able to work it all out and pick the best speed anyway.
Q3:  If I configure the BIOS for these 4000MHz DDR4 SDRAM sticks with 20-20-20-40 timings to operate as 2000MHz DDR4 SDRAM sticks with 10-10-10-20 timings... are those values appropriate?
Each DIMM contains a small ROM that contains its speed capabilities.
You will get different numbers for different clock speeds because internally the DRAM takes a fixed number of nanoseconds to do something rather than a fixed number of clocks, if you increase the clock speed then you need to wait more clock cycles for the same amount of time to have passed.
The BIOS should handle it all for you automatically.
Or even better find out what the DIMM specifies at the clock speed you will be using, it probably will be half but it may not be for some reason.
Unless you are getting stability issues or are trying to overclock things it's normally best to let the system handle things.
The BIOS reads all of the installed memory and then configures the memory controller and DIMMs to run at the highest speed that everything supports.
Specifically they are the CAS latency, RAS to CAS delay, RAS precharge time and Row active times.
More generally, how does one configure the BIOS to install faster DDR4 SDRAM into a motherboard (to get best possible performance)?
The 4 timings are the minimum number of clock cycles that the controller must wait between different steps in the memory access cycle.
Generally yes you could configure the BIOS to use timings that are half the specified ones if you are running at half the clock speed.