For me personally, the vast majority of things I'm doing on my workstation while at work will need those admin credentials.
And most of those things stay open from the time I login to the time I logout.
demigod account to administer the PC's - has no rights to shares/servers - only to the PC's
in accordance with the principle of Least User Access.
Having to type credentials for almost every single thing you open would be a nightmare.
On a workstation you shouldn't normally need to be admin, so the answer to your question in most cases will be NO.
God account - domain admin to do all server side work
First step is to make sure all users are doing day-to-day work, browsing the web, writing documents, etc.
However, there are plenty of exceptions and it really does depend on exactly what the person is doing on the machine.
I must say, though, that in one place I know where the staff worked with LUA principles, they didn't have a proper virus infestation during the three years I saw; another department in the same place that had everyone with local admin and IT staff with server admin had several outbreaks, one of which took a week of IT time to clean up due to the spread of infection via the network.
Opinions differ somewhat between Windows and *nix but your mention of domain admins makes me think you're talking about Windows, so that's the context I'm answering in.
If you're concerned about your servers being able to talk to each other, you can have individual accounts for each machine (<x>-admin, <y>-admin).
My own view is that I only log onto a server to do admin work, so it just doesn't make sense to log on as a user and then run each separate tool using run-as, which quite frankly has always been a real pain in the you-know-what and for most jobs it simply makes an admin's life overly difficult and time consuming.
Principle of least privilage is the name of the game.
It's much less hassle and I don't feel any less secure for doing so.
That way, if you're doing something on a compromised workstation with the PC-admin account, and it grabs the chance of your having admin privileges to try to get at other machines over the network, it's not going to be able to do anything nasty to your servers.
Limit the use of "admin" accounts to the tasks that have to be done as "admin".
You've got built-in stuff like domain management tools, 3rd party management consoles, mapped drives, command line remote access tools, scripts, etc.
About the only things that don't usually need admin privs are my web browser, email client, IM client, and PDF viewer.
feeble user - I grant myself power user on my own pc, but I don't even have those rights on other PC's
So I login with my admin credentials and then I RunAs all of my low priv apps with a low priv account.
At the risk of being down voted to hell, I have to say it depends on the admin's workflow.
Having this account also means it can't do anything to your personal data.
Since this is a Windows domain, it's likely the accounts they are using have complete network access to all the workstations, so if something bad happens, it can be across the network in seconds.
Definitely try to use another account for running the domain admin jobs.
Seperate accounts for seperate tasks is the best way to look at it.
My practice is then to create a domain account and give that account admin privileges on all workstations (PC-admin), and a separate domain account for server admin work (server-admin).
my life is simple... the account are distinctively named, and all have different passwords.
It does take some time to set up, but the potential savings are huge if you are hit with problems.
Because most Windows admin work is done using GUI tools there is a degree of safety that is not present for say a Linux admin working on the command line, where a simple typo could send him scurrying for last night's backup tape.