There are some good deals on bare bones kits out there.
So, he can do this, but it will cost him some money.
Most of the time is is better to harvest what you can from that old PC and buy a new case and motherboard, etc.
Having done this recently, I needed to buy a new motherboard, processor, cpu cooler, case, powersupply, and video card.
The mobo had on-board video, but I decided after a while to add a card, which needed to be PCI Express.
There's going to be a lot of forces working against you in this endeavor.
It will be more expensive, but the performance gains (and energy cost savings) will far outweigh that.
These can be had very cheaply from online second-hand sources.
You can just replace the old mainboard with another one.
I could have gotten a less expensive case, but decided to get something nice.
They are, in fact, what will slow your "desktop experience" down the most.
By the time you're done with those, you're on track to replacing almost the entire system.
One potential problem is the Acer case may be proprietary in its layout and an aftermarket board may not install very easy if at all, front panel connectors can also be proprietary and will not connect to the new motherboard.
Study long before you buy parts that may not fit that case.
The motherboard I needed, and it needed a new processor.
Just source any possible upgrades from 3rd party vendors -- Dell's markups on things like larger HDs, RAM, or video cards are often outrageous.
The power supply was mandatory, since the new motherboard required a newer supply.
However, I would seriously consider upgrading the entire system.
He can upgrade his system, but he might need to buy more than bargained for.
Compared to current hard drives or even SSDs, hard drives from the Pentium 4 era are incredibly slow.
If that does not help, invest in entirely new hardware, and sell the graphics card.
It's really hard to beat an inexpensive Dell when it comes to price.
It may be better to buy a complete system, but if he really wants a decent gaming system, building one will give him more options.
From my old system (mobo died) I was able to salvage my hard drive, DVD drive, and memory.
I'd suggest you try the next-cheapest improvement, namely inserting the fastest Hyperthreading P4 your board will accept, first.
I tried to use the old cpu cooler, but it was an OEM configuration that didn't fit the new board.
At which point it's probably easier (and cheaper) to just get a new system.