Because you need to buy the (very expensive) chassis, it's cost-ineffective to start with one blade and work your way up.
With blade you'll generally find as many management functions as possible are centralised so that multiple blades can be dealt with via a single interface (see HP's Onboard Administrators/iLO) for this.
This may be a question but I thought I would ask even so.
I'm more than happy to help you with any other questions, just ask.
The servers themselves contain only the non-unique parts – CPU, RAM, and hard drive.
Blade servers are small, high-density, low form-factor computers, designed for maximum power in a small space.
You would typically buy blade servers if you plan on buying a large number of servers at once.
Not doing so caused major issues with a former employeer where the assumption for a new secondary data center would only use blades.
Also of very great importance is the lack of traditional internal PCI/PCIe adapter although many blades have their own proprietary adapter mechanism to allow for lightly-modified PCIe adapters to be created to fit inside.
In my past experience we found networking limitations in using blades in high availability database configurations such as with Oracle RAC.
In addition to typical rack servers, they may contain additional management tools.
The chassis itself will hold the power supplies (resulting in less wasted power from conversion), the fibre-channel cards, the network controllers, SCSI interfaces, and so on.
per server, you only have to watch one set of hardware.
Additionally, some blade servers run with disks on back-end SANS.
The benefits are that you can pack far more computing power into a rack, you have homogenous hardware, and your management is simpler.
A blade server is mounted within a chassis, and the chassis typically takes on a lot of functions and parts that were previously done by the individual host.
While blades work great in many situations you need to verify if they are best for all with your database and system architects.
Otherwise, the initial up-front cost is excessive.
Also, generally, a blade server will offer better power/heat characteristics than a pizza-box servers.
Also, blade servers are highly modular allowing for the substitution of individual blades (CPU, memory, controlers, etc).
For instance Emulex and QLogic both make manufacturer-specific FC HBAs that fit inside IBM, HP and Dell's blades.
Instead of monitoring two power supplies, NICs, etc.
Because your hardware is homogenous, you can keep spare parts around without worrying about which model of power supply you need, and so on.