Most ADSL connections I've encountered have an upload cap of ~30-50 kb/sec.
There are a couple of free/cheap ones you can consider.
Trying to get by on ADSL is at best an interesting experiment.
First, you should install DynDNS client if your router does not support it.
The change should be reasonably quick (a few hours at most, mostly waiting for them to get to it).
I know mine does AT&T, but they do not allow me to host POP3 or SMTP.
Oh and already stated, your ISP may not allow incomming port 80 requests.
If you do, you should be able to set this in the router preferences.
It shouldn't involve any noticeable downtime, and should only cost an extra $1 per month or so.
However, ultimately you will want to set things up properly and this will be best accomplished with a proper service running in a proper server farm.
These will allow you to point port 80 at your "server."
Get a couple simultaneous users and suddenly you could be serving content out at dial-up speeds - and that's if you're not using your connection for anything else!
You should not be able to link to your router from the Internet ("the outside") as this would be a security hole.
As an added trick, if you end up purchasing a domain name in the future, you can set www.mydomain.tld as a CNAME record pointing to your dynamic DNS mydomain.dyndns.org which will allow people to connect to your home machine with the vanity URL.
Web space is cheap these days - $5/month will get you decent space on a site like Dreamhost, and $20/month will get you a virtual private server on a host like Slicehost.
Thats only the correct way to open your computer and network up for trouble.
Depending on your router you may not have the right options in it.
Is this website going to serve more than a couple users?
So, you may want to consider using a content distribution network, CDN, to help off-load some of your data.
Even the smaller professional hosting companies are moving to well-connected, high-performance virtual/cloud hosting provided by big players like amazon and google and rackspace instead.
Second, you need to forward port 80 to the server machine.
Not that you should rule it out if the monetary savings are an important factor for you, of course.
It'd be easier and more reliable to just call your ISP and ask them to give you a static IP address.
If your "customer" connected through ADSL and your site is ALSO on ADSL, then they whole roundtrip for communication will go over ADSL FOUR times -- over their ADSL out, over yours in, over yours out, and over theirs in again!
A site serving content at 30 kb/sec these days feels a bit slow, and that's if there aren't any other users hitting it at the same time.
But you will need to look for either port forwording, upnp settings, or Virtual Server settings.
If all else fails you could set that port on your router up for DMZ, but this is NOT the correct way to do it.
Getting decent performance on websites is important, and difficult to achieve at the best of times, without the huge delays of going over ADSL.
Also, as others have mentioned, there are bandwidth problems with ADSL connections.