Depends on your risk model whether you need to go down this way.
You can use tools like Acronis True Image to create a complete backup of your HDD.
On most laptops, batteries are easily removable by the end-user.
Focus on those components and you have several useful alternatives to handing your laptop over to a stranger.
When you get your laptop back, you just restore the previous state of your HDD from backup
Can you boot off of a live CD or USB drive and do something that will trigger the problem?
Then, you can reset your laptop to the initial state or reinstall OS.
The best way to be truly safe is to maintain control of your laptop and not give it to any third party.
Presumably the technician can use a USB disk to diagnose the problems.
I've seen more than a few refurb units that looked like they were previously operated in a sandstorm; dust/dirt contamination blocks airflow and clogs fans, which leads to overheating.
The backup should be placed for example on the another HDD.
If the laptop still overheats and shuts off, then the battery isn't the problem.
Will it overheat if you press F8 or delete during boot and let it sit at one of the BIOS menus for a while?
Alternatively - and not ideally - watch over the techs shoulder as he does the repair.
Check the documentation for your particular model for details.
A technician should be able to test your battery without even having the laptop at all.
Returning them to normal working condition can be as simple as blowing the dust out of the system with canned air or a hairdryer that has a "cool" setting.
If the battery tests bad (not uncommon based on my experience with refurbs), you can replace it and the laptop never has to leave your possession.
That's difficult to do in a generic repair scenario but in your specific case, you have several options.
Also, you can use some tools to completely delete any information from your HDD (because if the file was just simply  deleted, it can be recovered).
You said that either your battery or your fan is causing problems.
If you have no choice but to take the entire thing to a technician, the best thing you can do is to find a way to reproduce the problem that doesn't involve any of the software on the laptop.
If you have a reproduction case like this, then there's no need for the technician to access your hard drive at all.
You can encrypt the entire thing, or (even better) remove the hard drive before taking it in.
All the other answers are only concerned with the privacy of the preexisting data on the computer, which may or may not be enough for you.
On the last several laptop models I've owned, even a non-technical user could remove the hard drive with nothing more than a small screwdriver.
If you have any skills with computer hardware and basic hand tools, I recommend taking the back cover off the laptop and visually inspect the fans and heatsinks.
The easiest way is to remove the hard drive before taking it in for repair.
And if you do not see any signs that your data was hacked (for example, wiped password) - that does not mean that your data was not cloned and then hacked
If you are afraid of some changes done to the computer's hardware (like installing a hardware keylogger) that would compromise your privacy in the future, then the only solution is to never ever give the computer to anyone.
One easy test you can do on your own is to remove the battery and run the laptop for a while using only the AC adapter.
Many laptop models are designed with quick-access panels for getting to certain commonly-upgraded components (RAM, hard drives, CD-ROM, etc).
And keep in mind that anybody else who can access to your HDD can do that cloning too.
If it's broken then get a brand new machine, migrate the data, wipe the disk and sell the old one.