I would say 10-15 years of life if the density is not ludicrously high and you sit the disk on a shelf and don't touch it.
We did not talk about magnetic disks, but I know they are not more reliable.
Much of the fear about decay stems from a misunderstanding of how modern hard drives store information.
You'll also note that the most modern filesystems such as btrfs and ZFS do online "disk scrubbing" where the system will actively read and rewrite disk sectors to maintain the magnetic integrity of the disk.
Simply put, however, long term reliability and integrity of hard disk storage is unknown.
More noise, more dense data, and lower quality read/write mechanisms will result in so-called "bit rot" setting in faster.
Your question is simple but implies complicated answer.
I think anyone who sells you “reinvigorating” software to periodically rewrite your modern hard drive is selling you snake oil.
They no longer use the principles of classical magnetism similar to cassette tapes of the 80’s, rather, they rely on a quantum phenomenon known as Giant Magnetoresistance to achive much higher storage density and reliability that would otherwise be possible with classical magnetisation.
That said, I'm fairly certain this shouldn't be a problem in your case, since the hard disk in question has only been stored and left untouched for two years.
The shelf life in perfect conditions (no light, nitrogen environment, temperature controlled) for that is supposed to be about 25 years (which is a problem for hospitals, who are supposed to maintain data backups for the life of the patient).
On mag tape, I've always heard the limiting factor is the method they use to bind the magnetic particles to the tape backing.
The data on the HD will last much more than two years, so there is a very good chance you can recover it.
It's also going to vary depending on the quality of the internal motor and bearings.
The only problem might be that new hardware could be incompatible with old hardware, but two years isn't long at all.
Tape continues to be used because it is cheap and very high density, not because it has a superior shelf life.
Hard drives combine three elements: one magnetic, one mechanical, and one electrical.
Recordable optical media lifetime is about 100 years in theory (note that the discs haven't been around that long to actually test!)
A back-of-the-envelope calculation (https://bytes.com/topic/software-development/answers/851490-magnetic-decay-modern-hard-drives using parameters of 2007 technology) shows the decay time might be something around 22 years, so you are more likely to run into mechanical or other failure before any decay gets you.
It depends entirely on the ambient electromagnetic noise, the density of the media, and the quality of the read/write head.
Any and all of these are prone to failure, and this is why hard drives are one of the most common devices to fail in an operational system.
This is what I remember from talking with a salesperson from Iron Mountain several years ago.
Part of the problem of spinning up an old disk is the fact that they're mechanical, and mechanical things don't age well without maintenance.
True pressed discs last indefinitely as long as the media is internal to the disc medium, but those are extremely difficult to produce and are not economical for one-off disc production.
These have their own types of kryptonite, but are generally more suitable for archival storage than magnetic hard disks.
Once you introduce an environment with light to recordable media, however, the lifespan drops drastically.
For archival purposes, magnetic storage just isn't the best option.
Even if the magnetic area is still good and has your data intact, corrosion on the read/write heads can cause read or write errors.