I am thinking about merging the two, and setting up a KVM to be able to work with different systems [linux only to be frank] + use openVZ to setup separate machines for my development needs.
I know, this is not possible with OpenVZ and I would have to choose KVM for that.
Although I am a fast learner I don't want to mess with the main system so much that it will break the production apps or make them crawl.
I've tried Proxmox out and it seems like the best solution for me.
Apart from that, I would like to be able to play with different linux flavors, with newer kernels to test how they work etc.
I've got a dual xeon e5504 server, with [for now] only 8GB of ram.
I would like to have a production system, where only httpd+tomcat+db are setup and nothing else runs there.
Apart from that, I would like a test system, where I can play with different JVM settings, deploy my test apps, play with tomcat/httpd settings and restart them without interfering with the production system.
I'm very happy after few days of usage and I hope for the best.
Currently it works as a development server, but it's over speced for our needs and since our development methods changed through last 2 years we decided it will work as a production system for some of our applications + we would like to have a separate system for testing/research.
Storage is'n impressive either: 3x 146GB sas in raid5 + 500GB sata drives.
Or do I have to setup another system to run OpenVZ containers?
I've read, that KVM host is a normal linux installation and it allows to run normal processes on it.
I would simply go with that, but reading here and there about the performance impact full virtualization has over containers and looking at the specs of my server makes me think twice about it.
Although they are more or less internal apps and they don't produce much load, they need to be stable.
I mean... can I have KVM and OpenVZ running on the same system/kernel?
I don't want to loose too much performance, especially because of the nature of my apps [few JVMs running at the same time].
It will be my first time with virtualization, apart from using desktop virtualbox/vmserver.
oh and one more thing... unfortunately I'm quite limited with the funds...
Mind you, it's an opinion based on few days usage, but I haven't found anything else/easier to serve the purpose.
Our apps are mainly web apps deployed on tomcats [plural as some of the apps require older versions] and connected to Postgres.
If that is so, does it allow to run openVZ as well?