Ethernet bandwidth is used to transfer coded information.
Electricity is like water: It goes wherever it can, filling each available space according to the rules of physics, unless acted upon by some force.
In most cases the router can detect whether something is connected to the other end and will only attempt to talk to the other end if there's a connection.
Just like there would be no difference between having just the charger plugged in with no wire and having the charger plugged in with a long wire not connected to anything, there would be no difference between just having your router plugged in with no wire and having the wire plugged in not connected to anything.
It wouldn't matter anyway, since your router has dedicated bandwidth to each Ethernet port.
An unconnected network cord should not take up and network resources.
Even if it did try to send a data packet asking "Is anybody there?"
Ethernet is a little more sophisticated, because the gate keeping is done by switches or routers that look for data that is coded a particular way before it can be forwarded.
In order to do their job they have some active components such as transformers and regulators which convert the high mains voltage down to the voltage expected by your mobile phone.
The "wall-wart" power adaptors for mobile phones are power-converters.
then the amount of bandwidth it might use compared the full Ethernet bandwidth is so miniscule it would be be completely undetectable and even then I would expect this to be handled by the physical port controller rather than the rest of the hardware and so it wouldn't be able to waste bandwidth that way either.
Any electrical signals (noise, for example) on your dangling Ethernet cable are unlikely to resemble a properly coded signal.
Even when nothing is connected they still have to present the correct voltage at the output, unless there is a switch to turn it off, and so this is where they waste power.
Even if it used all the bandwidth, that would have no effect on anything.
As mentioned by others there is no way that an unplugged Ethernet cable can consume bandwidth.
Therefore, they will not satisfy the gate keeping requirements of the switch or router that the cable is connected to, and will not consume any bandwidth.
This "sense" will waste an absolutely tiny amount of power but because the device knows that there is nothing on that port it will not bother to attempt to send data to it, so no bandwidth wasted there...
There's nothing connected to the charger, but no electricity passes over the charger wire.
The charger pulls electricity because it is connected to the outlet.
If you mean bandwidth over your Internet connection, machines only send responses to specific requests.
Typically any modern network router is able to "sense" whether or not a device is connected to any given port and so disable that port if needs be.
And even if the router thinks it detects something it will at most do an occasional ping of the other end (though I believe the standard protocol calls for the other end to initiate conversation).
It may get a little bit of electricity as the router tests to see if there's something at the other end, but a little electricity does not equal network bandwidth.
When you leave a telephone off hook while there is still a connection, any sound is going to be transmitted and will use bandwidth.
Absolutely nothing due to this "goes out" over the "outside world" connection, which is your major capacity bottleneck.
Ethernet bandwidth is different, Ethernet is not a power supply device, it is used for signalling devices and over the years the electronics behind the devices have gotten more and more intelligent.
There simply is nothing to send data to in order to waste the bandwidth.
Those electronics waste a percentage of power (typically around 10% of whatever power they draw is wasted by this conversion)  in order to present the correct voltage to your device.
So at most the cable is consuming an occasional few cycles from the router's processor -- nothing that would affect capacity.
The unconnected charger wire pulls no additional electricity over what the charger itself pulls.
In both cases, the wire has no effect, but the connected device still does what it does even with nothing else connected to it.
Laws of physics to not apply to bandwidth or network communication.
On the other hand, having the cable attached DOES cause a miniscule additional power draw, due to capacitive and leakage losses, but probably not enough to measure, even with lab instruments.
It's a little different with newer telephone technology, because the phone acts like a gate keeper, blanking out sound below a set threshold level so that it doesn't consume bandwidth during quiet times.