Physically, it's impossible to receive more power than has been transmitted, of course.
For something close to a real measurement you'd need an optical power meter.
I was taught a similar Ad-hoc method as Stuggi...guy had me wrap the jumper around my screw driver a bunch of times and twist tie it after we got the Tx/Rx within spec.
So this seems to me to mean that you can connect them with any length cable as the Transmitter maximum is the same as the receiver maximum (-3 dBm)
If I connect the transceiver XMT to its own RCV I get
I know it sounds like the dirtiest AD hoc trick you've ever heard of, but I know a lot of fiber technicians who use it in the field to fix issues temporarily when they don't have the right attenuation cable handy.
I have a pair of GLC-LH-SMD devices which are 1000BASE-LX/LH
For testing purposes, you could wrap a patch cable tightly around a pencil and wrap it with electrical tape.
I don't see how a transmit power of -5.5 dBm is being received as -1.4 dBm so my question is , Is it real - how am I receiving more power than I transmit?
(other than inserting the lead but not clicking it into place - which actually seems to work as shown by the receive level below
I do not have an answer as to why those Tx/Rx readings are as such, but I do know that connecting fiber SFPs without proper attenuation (within threshold) is a great way to burn out your optics.
I can see that the 1000BASE-ZX has a much higher transmit power than a receive power - so this would need an attenuation cable
My guess is that the receive level is a little too high and that the receiver fails to give a more meaningful reading in that domain.
Yet if I connect them to each with a five meter patch lead to each other (in the same switch) - or if I connect one to itself I get a high RX power warning
The sharp bend will cause the cable to leak signal, and as such attenuate the signal.
In the field they will be a couple of kilometers apart , but whilst I test the setup I only have 5m patch leads.
Some modern patch cables have really tight minimum bend radiuses, so the cheaper the cable the better.
Mostly agreeing with the answer above, you're completely right in that this should work.
(You can test this with a test laser if you have one, the patch cable will start glowing red if you bend it enough.)
The readings you get from the SFPs are in my experience more a "best guess" at the signal level, and are usually only useful for telling you if you have a signal, especially on the TX side.