I will never willingly not have an SSD as a primary drive again.
Data read sequentially, like movies or large archives, will see the least benefit moving from platters to flash chips (but will still see a benefit) -- once a HDD gets going it has a pretty high throughput.
In this aspect the role of HDD's is relegated to the task of mass storage and not every minute usage.
With good controllers and TRIM support the statement "SSD are degraded with writes" really does become a myth.
Even a "degraded SSD" (say, 80% optimal) is still much faster than an a conventional HDD  -- but remember, that just like a traditional HDD, a SSD will eventually get old (and "slow" in relation to current technology) and fail -- use it while you have it and keep external backups.
"SSD are degraded with writes" is now mostly a myth*
(This naturally extends to Visual Studio projects and pretty much anything else except for large media or archives :-)
Being good at swap is a stop-gap and not a real solution for a demanding user.)
Buying an SSD to make your page file faster is simply ignoring that fact.
My Mac can boot into the OS, boot Fusion, boot my Windows and be in Visual Studio before hers comes to the login screen.
*If it really is a myth depends upon the actual SSD controller/firmware, operating system configuration/support, external maintenance tools, etc., of course.
http://eshop.macsales.com/shop/internal_storage/Mercury_Extreme_SSD_Sandforce
Windows 7 comes with TRIM support and the SandForce (e.g.
In fact, my wife has a similar Mac without a SSD (but she has a 7,200 RPM drive).
Except for capacity and cost, there is no reason to ever go back to spindles -- a good SSD is so fast at random access, that even under moderate-heavy load swap is "almost unnoticeable" or "minimized to the point where it does not bother me".
If the hard drive is truly your bottleneck, a SSD will definitely be of help.
Windows 7 has built-in TRIM support and most modern SSDs practically eliminate these early issues (3rd party software or internal work to clear/garbage-collect unused pages).
TRIM lets the OS tell the drive when a page can be cleared/recycled -- as far as the SSD (or HDD) is concerned, a page consisting of nothing but zeros is still valid data.
SF-1200/1500/2xxx) controllers are TRIM-aware; they are also fairly aggressive at internal collection and page-cycling.
Also: Please do not say "virtual memory" when you mean "page file" or "swap file".
This helps me maintain my speed even though I use the drive as my primary system drive.
Put everything you want fast, INCLUDING OS, SOFTWARE, AND SWAP, on the SSD.
Anandtech and Tom's Hardware have some great articles and write-ups on the subject.
It's a waste of an SSD, and doesn't even give you the same boost as RAM.
Now, get to a techie site, read a few articles, and put in an online order for a shiny new toy :-)
I would recommend an SDD based on the SF-1200 (or higher) series ~ $200 or less for 120GB.
As for the speed difference, I use a Mac with VMWare Fusion running my Windows (I develop primarily in Visual Studio).
SSD leveling also helps with the speed over time issue.
(An SSD is still significantly slower at random access and throughput then main memory, however.
The difference in this line of SSD drives is that they don't get slower over time.
In short, I find a SSD to be EXCELLENT for development work.
Again, my recommendation is an SF-1200 (or higher) based device -- it is just a "consistently good" prosumer controller for a competitive price (throughput isn't everything, consider average/max latencies, etc).
The core issue is that "clearing" a flash page is a relatively long operation; if this is done ahead of time or in the background there is no appreciable degradation (the memory itself does not get slower over time).
In this aspect there is absolutely no contest between an SSD and HDD in terms in of random-access performance and latency: a good SSD will win hands-down in every test/scenario that favors this usage pattern and even a good HDD will make a system chug under moderate-heavy swap.
With everything else equal, I would get a good SSD over another 4GB of memory, but best would be to get both ;-)