Kindly don't answer like backup your data and format your hard disk/drive, use third party software, etc.
I have checked using 'Extend Volume...' in 'Disk Management', which is currently disabled.
If this was not your boot partition, you would first need to convert to a dynamic disk (as opposed to basic):
So if you don't mind -free- 3rd party software, Easus partition manager is great.
If your unformatted space is next to the formatted space the partition can usually be expanded to encompass it.
The other reason I'd recommend Easus is that it has a very simple-to-use GUI;  most of the other free options are far less user-friendly.
Kindly help me and ask for any further clarifications if needed.
I have > 350 GB Unallocated space in my hard disk.
I want to add this > 350 GB unallocated space to C: drive where Windows is installed.
Open command line, may need to run as administrator.
In any case, you need software that can move the partition that is between your "C:" partition and the free space.
If you can't do what you need to do in the Disk Management Console you can try using the command line.
volumenumber here is the existing partition that you want to expand.
If your Unallocated space is the is contiguous with your C partition, meaning that it is the part of the same disk and that you don't have any other partition except C. If this is the case than you can use Extend volume, via Disk Management.
The first is that you're trying to extend your boot partition, and as stated on this Microsoft page (emphasis added):
It's reliable, really free, and can help you move the intervening partition, say, to the end of the disk, so the free space will be adjacent to C: and then you can expand it.
While you stated you didn't want to use third-party tools or backup to another disk (which is good practice to do anyway before futzing with partitions), I don't think you have any other options.
if you specify a size it will expand that much, but if you leave the size parameter out it will fill the empty space.
The free space for expanding a partition must be adjacent in virtually any scenario.
Note that contiguous space means that the free space must be directly adjacent to the partition you want to grow.
Right click on C partition and select the Extend volume and click on Next.
I am not sure whether you really mean that you don't want to use 3rd party software, or you just don't want to spend money on it.