Caching proxy servers can respond on behalf of the central servers if they've previously seen a reject, or if the central server is offline and they've previously seen an accept.
They're sometimes useful as aggregators, or in federations, but on their own don't really do much in a pass-through configuration.
In an ISP environment a large portion of the traffic is made up of rejects, as clients will keep re-authenticating.
If a NAS starts misbehaving and floods the authentication servers with traffic, there's a greater chance of the system being overwhelmed.
Each FreeRADIUS instance should be able to handle around 20,000-30,000 auth/s on moderate hardware against an OpenLDAP instance running MDB.
If there are disruption to the network links between the NAS and the central servers the NAS will be unable to authenticate users.
Upgrading, monitoring, fixing issues with the database are simpler to do with fewer instances.
You will have to manage each of those instances though (use ansible or salt), and correct faults should issues arise.
The servers in this configuration represent a single point of failure.
The advantage of a distributed architecture with a locally replicated copy of the data, is redundancy, and reduced latency.
A pair of servers would likely to be sufficient to handle the load of up to a million users.
There's increased hardware cost of having to place a server next to each NAS in a 'shared-fate' (if possible) sort of configuration.
Synchronisation is not difficult to achieve, OpenLDAP's syncrepl protocol does a good job of hub and spoke, or even mesh topologies.
It will perform partial and full resyncs of data as required.
You've not really provided enough info about the NAS to say if that would actually be appropriate.
New instances should synchronize to the master as they start for the first time.
Caching proxy servers can be useful as they take some of the load off the authentication servers.
The advantage of having a single (cluster) of RADIUS servers, behind redundant load balancers (hint hint), is simplified management.