You will need to pull a copy of the kernel and initrd off the CD and onto the computer's hard drive so that Loadlin can find them there.
There are also obviously no USB ports, so the UNetbootIn approach isn't feasible.
It's got no onboard ethernet (back in the day, you needed a PCMCIA card for that!
Yes, I did this very thing on a Toshiba Notebook with a 486 processor.
This is a bit of an exercise in doing something for the sake of doing it, so I'm willing to accept that it might not be possible.
I've been given a 1996-vintage laptop, with a big enough HDD for a Debian installation, and a CD drive.
There is a floppy drive too, but despite some searching I've been unable to dig out a 3.5 inch floppy to make a boot disk.
The Plop Boot Manager allows you to create an environment that will boot a CD (and other media) even if the BIOS doesn't support it - might be worth a shot.
You can boot the operating systems from harddisk, floppy, CD/DVD or from USB.
To accomplish this I created the following bootable floppies - Pocket Linux 2.51, Darkstar Resque 2.3.99-a, and a floppy I have labeled fli4l.
One package has fdisk, one package lilo, one package tar and pppd.
(Incidentally, it's a Dell XPI CD, if that makes any difference)
check out "How do I install Wubi on a machine with no Internet connection?"
You can start the boot manager from floppy, CD, network and there are many more ways to start the boot manager.
It was a little bit tricky ( and I could provide a lot more detail but I'm not sure this is the proper forum ) but here is the general idea - you will do a lot of swapping between bootable linux floppies to get the proper combination of software and kernels and modules for any one task and you will end up downloading all your software thru the serial port to your notebook thur an appropriate null modem serial port cable.
The boot manager has a builtin ide cdrom and usb driver to access those hardware without the help/need of a bios.
"The Plop Boot Manager is a small program to boot different operating systems.
Loadlin can boot Linux directly from MS-DOS, Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows Me.
You can install the boot manager on your harddisk.
Alternately, I saw boxes of floppy disks in stock the last time I was at Staples...
Linux can easily run your serial port at 115kbaud and you will learn a whole lot about the various packages ( lilo, ftp, pppd, tar, mount, fdisk, sfdisk, mke2fs, ext3/4 ... ) but this is not a "press one button and see it go" type of operation - heve fun.
Does anyone know of a way to either get Linux installed from Windows 98 itself, or to somehow get the machine to boot from the CD?
There is no extra partition required for the boot manager. "
I've got a PCMCIA card on the way, but it wont be here for a while so in the meantime I'm trying to get a Linux distro installed to replaced the ropey Win98 (pre-SE) edition that's on it.
It wont boot from CD either, there's no option in the BIOS - just Floppy or HDD.
), or wireless obviously, so it's effectively a closed off machine without any network access capability.
Short of pulling the HDD and installing Linux on it using a USB caddy/cable - which I don't want to do as it'll mean an outlay to buy an old-school IDE one, I'm stumped.