Once you get Windows booted up, check the event log for what might be causing it.
Have you made any configuration changes to your VM lately?
In the future I would clone that sucker when it's working great then you will always have something to fall back on when stuff like this occurs.
The best shut-down option is definitely going to Virtual Machine and selecting, "shutdown guest" - a bit confusing if you have a profile named "Guest", but it means the running profile, regardless of which one.
An additional way to mitigate the problems related to the hang-up of VMWare, although not a full solution, is that when you are in Windows XP, go to Start/Run then type in 'CMD' bringing up a command window.
You can move the .VMEM file out of the folder that contains the virtual machine.
), the Windows Check Disk will run and fix any errors it finds which may be contributing to the reason you are getting hung up in the first place.
Try using the vmrun utility included with VMWare Fusion.
The reason I'd been experiencing this issue seems to have had something to do with running Thunderbird from a USB thumb drive and having windows experience a 'Write delay failure' where the data couldn't be recovered.
To effectively "pull the power" would be to get a TERMINAL window open on the MAC and you would have to know which VMWARE processes to use the kill command on.
Launch the VM in Fusion and execute this command (in a Terminal window) to make vmrun can see it:
You'll be told Checkdisk cannot be run and do you want to run the operation the next time you reboot.
I run Win XP Pro on a MacBook Pro with VMware 2.0.8 (328035).
Then when you try to resume the virtual machine, it'll say it can't find it and if you want to discard the suspended state.
Answer 'Y' and the next time you boot,  (best to just go at that point and select restart so you don't forget!
If you have snapshots enabled, roll back to a previous snapshot.... even better if you AutoProtect enabled so that you can get a fairly recent snapshot.
I do NOT know which processes you would need to kill.