Even if your system has plenty of RAM, wasting RAM results in a smaller buffer cache, which means increased disk I/O.
If there is a swap partition, the kernel pushes the contents of memory into swap.
I was wondering since I heard that swap is used when you're out or RAM and and swapping too much is bad, since I have a lot of RAM ( 8GB )....
While it's doing this, your system slows to a crawl.
Without swap, the OS has no choice but to keep the modified private memory mappings associated with those services in RAM forever.
One major difference is how the system behaves when memory runs out:
So no matter how much RAM you have, you still want the system to use it efficiently.
So, since I'm going to lose my data anyways when the system OOMs, I prefer the former option to at least have a (high) chance of recovery.
I've been running a desktop system without any swap for a couple years, and it's been going great!
Modern operating systems require a swap space to make efficient use of RAM.
If you don't want to use a swap partition, you can use a swap file: a filesystem image stored on a regular file and used as your swap space.
If you've got a program leaking memory, that's likely to be the one that gets killed.
Also, do I need it for hibernation or it isn't a must?
Using it efficiently means getting things out of RAM that are extremely unlikely to ever be accessed.
The following articles explain how to do it in detail:
When you start up a typical system, a large number of services start up.
Programs run initialization code and modify private memory mappings in the process.
I usually unplug the power cord when this happens.
There are a few behaviours that are different; some of these are advantageous and some might harm you.
If there is no swap partition, the OOM killer runs immediately.
This keeps happening until swap runs out, which could be ten minutes to an hour if you have a big swap partition.
It becomes impossible to open a terminal and kill the process.
That happens and you recover the system nearly instantly.
Swap is required for hibernation, otherwise you can get by without it just fine.