It sounds like you want to allow your sister to use the system normally, but keep your use of the system private.
Please note that full disk encryption only protects your data from hard drive theft if the key, or access to the key protected by the passphrase, is stored outside of that system.
Any encryption where the key is on the same system as the data it is encrypting can (and usually will) be compromised.
Truecrypt doesn't provide this capability, for the reasons stated above.
If you only want decryption to happen on one specific machine the encryption has to be done by hardware on THAT machine, which does not exist on another machine.
If the PC powers down or the drive is connected to another machine the password would need to be given again.
you can be creative with this but it will NOT be worth it.
For the boot loader, The question is how will it know that it's in this machine not another one.
Xbox, Wii, PS3, Xbox 360 have all tried this with their firmware and software keys and eventually failed to some degree.
and I don't know how to set the truecrypt loader to read the password from hardware specs which need to be unique to this machine like a serial number.
There will be a loss in performance but a gain in privacy; you have to decide what is more important.
An encrypted filesystem without pre-boot authentication is just a slow unencrypted disk.
The authentication is how the system knows what the encryption key is.
They then need to take more than just a hard drive to access the data.
Maybe sleep mode would give you what you need, when your pc wakes up from sleep mode you do not have to give the pre-boot password.
serialnumber, motherboard model no, mac address or a password stored on another hard drive etc.
I would use Truecrypt to create an encrypted file container, and then use VMWare player to create a virtual hard drive within that file container and install/run your own "self-contained" and fully-encrypted operating system from that.
if you are thinking of setting the boot loader to read something specific from your machine and use it as a password.
Alternatively you could run Truecrypt full-disc encryption inside a VM.
first, given what you'r saying they will crack this easily.
The hard drive is the only permanent memory and if you put the password there you they will take with the hard drive and have it work automatically just like on your machine defeating the purpose.