So one of the first things it does is to ARP for the MAC address.
I would say, the question is kind of confusing, but looks like here is what you need
So here is how you would do it on a cisco switch (I have taken vlan 2 as example)
The workstation saves that MAC associated with the GW's IP.
Sometime later the workstation attempts to access an off net IP.
Because 192.168.1.1 can only be used by one segment (it will be "outside" all but one segment) this won't work as stated.
Having said the above, you can say you need them to be on the same VLAN and also on the same subnet.
Remember that protected ports cannot talk to another protected ports
When the workstation starts all it knows is the IP of the GW.
In that Case i would have a Default VLAN_0 where your Default Router lives.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/hw/switches/ps700/products_tech_note09186a008013565f.shtml
In cisco world you can deploy a full fledged PVLAN or use a switchport protected (which is also a rudimentary form of PVLAN)
If you want to deploy a full fleged PVLAN configuration or more info on how to do stuff
The router correctly responds with its MAC since the IP is not on the local net.
Knowing it is off net it substitutes the routers MAC in the destination MAC and voila.
You can easily subnet into 8 blocks of 32 address using a mask of /27 (255.255.255.224), however they won't all have the same gateway address as they'll be in different subnets of course.
I haven't tried this in a very long time (back in Repeater days).
Use firewalls to physically separate the traffic between segments, allow traffic back and forth between the rest of the world while banning traffic to and from the other segments.
Similarly do it for all the 8 ports, IP them normally as if in the same subnet.
Remember, that in this case, no traffic will pass between them.
Like I said, it was long, long, ago, in a network, far, far, away...
If you're trying to use a netmask as security, don't.
Now there are various ways to achieve it, but the simplest is by using a concept of Private VLAN's (PVLAN's) for short.
A group of us tested using any valid IP not on our network as the gateway(GW) and it worked properly.
As for this supernet thing, it'll get complex because one side will be able to send to the other but not the reverse - bad idea, just route it properly.
So, though they will be in the same VLAN having same gateway, they will be isolated from each other.
in that way all would access the gateway and non can access each other's segment.
Each segment will need its own gateway IP (ie 192.168.1.32/27 will need 192.168.1.33 as a gateway).
Which leaves us with the second part of the problem, they should not be able to talk to each other.