The block driver supports disk devices as well as disk images.
It is also possible to pass through an ISO file as a bootable SCSI CDROM device.
I find myself having to maintain some old hardware for some legacy applications.
To start from Adam iSCSI is a protocol which "expose" disk space from one computer and represent this as storage device to another computer.
Windows XP seems to be easier to deal with for the 39160 cards, but as XP can be sanbooted from iSCSI already, that doesn't unlock any extra functionality for me.
I'm currently doing this via a pair of Adaptec 39160 cards connected with a VHDCI cable.
By default it presents devices as LUNs on ID 7, so make sure your SCSI cards are set to different IDs.
Is it feasible to run a modern computer with a physical SCSI interface and present itself as a target disk to the legacy computer, so instead of accessing a physical SCSI disk, it's accessing a modern disk in a SAN?
What you can search is PATA to SCSI convertor/controller to use PATA disks as SCSI.
Moreover after iSCSI LUN is recognized it should be formatted and mounted (from OS) to particular mountpoint (or used as RAW device).
But I'm not familiar enough with the terminology or technology to tell if it's supported, possible or completely out of the question.
But to use it the OS of second computer must recognize the protocol and have appropriate drivers/modules to work with.
Windows 98 seems to hang when scanning the PCI bus with ASPI for 79xx, possibly due to a driver issue, though I haven't investigated heavily.
But the best you can do is to migrate all the applications which run on this old hardware to new software/hardware platform.
I believe your desired approach is possible using FreeBSD's CAM Target Layer subsystem and SCSI adapters that support target mode, like the AIC-78xx series.
I looked at http://www.linux-iscsi.org/ and it looks like the usual mode of operation is act like an iSCSI target out of a physical disk rather than the other way around, a physical target out of a remote iSCSI target.
These computers use old parallel SCSI drives, and when those drives die, I have to scavenge for new ones, which is getting increasingly difficult.
I am not aware of option to use iSCSI disk as root device.
The FreeBSD kernel must be compiled with targ and targbh drivers, the ports must be enabled for target mode (eg ctladm port -o on ahc0), and the block devices must be created ( ctladm create -b block -o file=/path/to/disk or ctladm create -b block -t 5 -o file=/path/to/iso).