The factors of the office want to charge $100 per user for use of their internet connection.
Regardless, if you can't get around the landlord with DSL or cable and a T1 is too expensive then I would investigate a wireless (802.11) ISP connection, depending on the location it can be faster and cheaper than mobile broadband.
ways to achieve this without having to pay $100 per user for an internet connection using the factors rates.
Using a dynamic DNS service, having a server and remote logins is possible; the question is whether mobile broadband can give you the bandwidth you need; most mobile broadband plans I know have you pay per gigabyte or throttle you down to dialup speeds once you exceed a transfer limit.
Such tactics speak of extremely poor management and ignorance of basic networking, and that would worry me if I were to rely on them for keeping the connection up and running or fixing it in case of troubles.
If it is so, I'd suggest changing provider altogether.
Renting one from a hosting company is usually a much better idea.
I'm not sure I understand how the landlord controls what you do with the pipes into the office?
Talk to the other tenants and see what they are doing or call a local IT shop and see what they recommend, they'll know the best ISPs options.
Not sure I understand how they are going to determine how many users are using their internet connection.
If, however, they want you to pay depending on how much people  you declare being in the office at any given day, it's a totally different question.
A voice/fax land line can also run run DSL, a T1 can run voice and/or data, cable TV can also provide internet?
Alternatively: do you really need the server to reside in the office physically?
This seems excessive so I was planning on going down a mobile broadband route for individual user access.
As suggested by others, setup DDNS for a direct remote connection.
However, a borderline-legal solution would be to put a NAT box, pay for that, and have everybody go through it (possibly using a VPN).
Without knowing more details it may just be that they are encouraging you to get your own ISP connection and not share theirs.
Other options include LogMeIn (free or paid), GoToMyPC or similar services that all work fine without a static IP.
Mobile broadband + online backup could make $100/user cheap!
Techincally, there's only one 'computer' physically attached to their internet connection.