Ask where they expect to be in a year or in five years.
Some of them said they're in it for the money, and I would say things like "You'll make more money as a plumber, and you don't need college for that."
(Now I'd give a very different answer if you were teaching future teachers.
It seemed that the problem was that they weren't applying themselves in class for a variety of reasons---sometimes, but not always, for highly sympathetic reasons, such as competing family obligations or need to work.
Sometimes, I think the problem was that the teaching in their classes was very poor, and students chose to drop the class and re-try rather than get a poor grade.
Some have accused me of interfering with their lives.
You can't know for sure, and it is really not you who should enlighten them.
For instance, I had this student who was just terrible at programming.
However, when I looked more closely at these students, I'm not sure the problem was that the students couldn't learn CS.
To basically repeat some of what others said, hopefully shorter:
They are struggling in my courses, maybe many of my colleagues say they are struggling in their courses too, but they might turn out to be amazing web or UI designers later.
Most of the time, the students hate me for saying that.
Some students had a great immediate answer, and I signed the form right away.
A professor telling a student that they are not good enough for a given field is just brutal.
However, as is always the case, some of them are happy to sit and discuss why I said that.
Perhaps the answer is to reflect on issues within your CS degree program and consider how you can get students to stay on campus, focus on work, and get help when they need it.
Just tell them what you do know: "These are the skills that I find most successful people in this field have..." "Here is what I'm seeing when I assess your current skills..."  Leave it up to them to decide how they, once informed, want to handle incongruities.
Like this, there have been many cases where I was able to realign people towards their goals.
Or maybe they have a God given talent in some obscure mathematical field that will be really valuable in the near future in robotics.
If you really want to help them, you need to get to know them very well, have a few beers together, have some long talks, find out why they even started CS, and very carefully help them realize they have other options.
Now the student is working hard refocusing career goals, away from computer science.
If not for decent repetition and memory, the student would have failed the class.
I found out that the student had extraordinary artistic skills.
The other thing is that saying something like this can do irreversible damage.
Other reasons included the lack of places to study on campus coupled with a poor study environment at home, or not knowing anyone in the program and becoming demotivated socially.
Help them if you can, and fail them in your course if they are below expectations.
Will the students that you advise really do better in another program?
This past semester, I asked every single student that came in to my office to change majors to CS (or to IT) the same first question: "Why?"
These sessions can go on for long hours, but eventually, we are able to figure out what is right for them.
Tutoring strategies like PLTL can address the academic needs while also forming social bonds between students.
CS is a great area, with many job opportunities, even if students join the workforce with just a few CS classes.
All said and done, I tell students that they are bad at this (by providing historical data for the same) but I also tell them what they should be doing instead.
I wouldn't tell my students such thing because of two things.
But to be honest, I'd rather spend the little free time I have with students that excel, and help them get even better.
But since these folks are only hurting themselves on the long run if you are right...)
I used to work at a community college in the US, where students often hung around for years in the CS program.
I was able to sit and map out a career path which used these skills.
I kind of like this question because I have faced this situation many times, and I have in fact, told my students, that yes, they should change their specialisation or at least pursue something else.
I agree that it is a terrible outcome, resulting in lost wages and lost potential.
Over the years, I have learnt that some students are more open to such suggestions than others, and have gotten good at identifying such students.