Something like an RPG, it wouldn't fit the game that Mr. Look At Me With My Amazing Armour Which You Didn't Pick Up Earlier suddenly reappeared, with the set of unique armour just because you didn't pick it up and instead a band of rogues did.
If the game forgets that the player has gotten the key before and allows it to respawn, it's pretty simple.
For example, consider a key that is spawned somewhere and can unlock a door.
You can consider game state to be a state machine.
doubles the number of states in that state machine.
Then again, the other issue would be that the player could not physically pick up said items.
For example: If the game is some sprawling RPG with 60h of gameplay and 1000 secrets, then yes, as a player I would expect to be able to slowly chart out the world and collect things.
get the Super Sword, or the Super Shield, but not both).
Remember: You can't please everyone, all of the time.
Alternatively, if the game is short and/or linear, missing content on the first playthrough can provide motivation for second/third/... playthroughs.
It really depends on the game length, the type of market, and the game genre.
You might find that to be a good compromise, if the player might miss out on some things early on but be able to go back after the game is done.
The more game state that gets tracked, the more complex the player's flow through the game world, and that complexity increases combinatorially.
Every time you store an additional piece of state, the game designers have to carefully track how the game works when that data is in either state.
I'm sure at least some games had obscure secrets in them with no clues and no way to go back and get them again after passing a certain point, specifically as a ploy to sell more strategy guides.
If that's your reason, I'd say that is borderline unethical design, at least.
I know on Red Faction: Guerilla, I am a fan of the cutscenes and am glad that I can rewatch.
That state makes the game more complex to play (players must correctly do things in the right order), but more importantly, makes the game more complex to design.
If the game doesn't let you revisit it, now designers have to make sure they handle situations like:
It depends on how you want people to approach the game, what kind of value (both gameplay and real-world) these things hold, and why you want people to be gaining these things in the first place.
It definitely depends on what your intentions are for the game!
However, it would fit that, for example, you find those rogues with the armour later.
But since trading and battling other players was a large part of the intended core gameplay, forcing the issue made sense.
With the original Pokemon Red/Blue, I think it was flatly impossible to complete your collection without trading.
It's a question of how complex you want your game to be.
On the other hand, an arcade game or something with less of a storyline would probably benefit from being able to replay.
There's no reason for the player not to be able to re-defeat Master Foo, when the game is split up.
Everything that isn't revisitable implies there's state stored with the player's game to note which things have been visited and which things haven't.
Cinematics and the like, I would say, are a different ball-game.
Every bit of state you store ("has X been visited before?")
I think Chrono Trigger was the first game to offer the popular "New Game+" option that lets you restart after beating the game, preserving your inventory and levels and giving you immediate access to all game locations, specifically to aid completionist players.
In this case it may be interesting to make it impossible to see everything in a single playthrough.
Any time the player needs that key, they can go there to get it.
Or, they should be able to miss things (make them non-revisitable) by choice, but not by ignorance (i.e.
Figure out who your game is for and make a game for them!
You do not want to punish players for something they cannot control or predict, such as inventory space.