I deleted this file and restarted Excel - no extra window!
Now close Excel, delete the Personal.xlsb file, and reopen Excel.
And voila - the additional blank window doesn't appear anymore!
My problem was that I had a Personal.xlsb file in an alternate location, and for some reason a search of the C drive wasn't returning a match for that file name.
It should open only the file you want and a second window will no longer appear.
The solution is to find the real location of the Personal.xlsb file so you can delete it.
To do that, open excel and switch to the Personal.xlsb file.
I went to the XLSTART folder to see if my personal workbook was indeed in the wrong place.
It looks MS has made some changes into xlsb file format and the file needs updating.
Click this hyperlink and excel will open the true location of the Personal.xlsb file regardless of where your particular installation has placed it.
This can occur due to corruption in a personal macro workbook (%appData%\Microsoft\Excel\XLSTART\), and removing PERSONAL.XLSB from this folder caused the problem to go away.
All the shortcut keys and descriptions were maintained, but more importantly, I didn't get a second copy of Excel opening every time I opened a worksheet from Explorer.
However, it had always been successfully hidden up until recently.
Directly under Related Documents is a hyperlink that says "Open File Location."
Now select the "File" tab on the top left which will load an "Info" page.
My location was the same one that Amber mentioned above, but I wanted to share how I found it in case someone else has a different location.
I had to export each of my macro modules to another folder, then after removing PERSONAL.XLSB, record a new macro stored in my "Personal Macro Workbook" (which recreated PERSONAL.XLSB), then on the Developer toolbar, click "Visual Basic" and import the macro modules again.
I had the exact same problem in Excel 2015 for quite a while, and when I hid the Personal.xlsb workbook, a blank page would open instead and I couldn't close that one without closing the file I actually wanted open.
Thought it might be related to my PERSONAL.xlsb file like so many mentioned.
What helped me was to make personal.xlsb file visible, modify it slightly (I changed the columns width), re-save it and hide again.
On the right side of the information on that page there is information such as "Properties, Related Dates, Related People, and Related Documents."
From this point on, I expect other tips online about creating/deleting/showing/hiding the Personal.xlsb file will work as expected.
It was there so I tried deleting and recreating it to no avail (just a big pain in my butt with the amount of macros I have).
But I have left it deleted and Excel is finally loading as I expect.
I went back to the XLSTART folder and saw there was also an add-in file, something I had to install for work.
In my case I simply couldn't delete macros workbook as it was full of macros.