Again sorry if this is a dumb question but I find it hard to follow the wording used in licenses.
Of course, Sun may not have the same attitude as me.
Note that Oracle tightened up the PUEL license a lot in 2017.
I know I could go with OSE but I have not looked into VNC versus RDP yet.
“Personal Use” requires that you use the Product on the same Host Computer where you installed it yourself and that no more than one client connect to that Host Computer at a time for the purpose of displaying Guest Computers remotely.
But if I make this server available for clients to connect to the websites to view my progress this is no longer personal use also meaning that using Vbox to run a production web server is also against the license.
Surely, having an RDP server installed on the virtual machine would work.
When I search using Google, I wouldn't consider that I am viewing Googles' server, or that Google are displaying their server to me.
I take this to mean that if I want to setup a development server (web server) that's only used by me to do my work this falls under personal use.
Sorry if this seems like a lame question but I want to be sure before making a decision.
To me it seems that having more than one person logged in to the virtual machine at the same time is going against the terms of the licence.
I'm not sure to what extent the lack of the RDP server is a problem, as long as you have access to the host machine.
If your customers just look at the pages the server is producing, I don't think that would count (your mention of RDP suggests though, that your customers may be logging in as users on the virtual machine).
Older versions of the PUEL (and, therefore, older versions of VirtualBox) defined "personal use" as including personal commercial use, but, in the current license, "Personal Use and/or Educational Use expressly exclude any use of the Product for commercial purposes or to operate, run, or act on behalf of or for the benefit of a business, organization, governmental organization, or educational institution."
I've used "logged in" rather than connected because of the phrase "displaying Guest Computers remotely".
I don't think that having other people connecting to the virtual machine is going against the terms of the licence.