With a 500Mb VHD, you could set it up once and distribute this to all the people who need it.
Team up HAVP + Clam/AV with Microsoft SteadyState, SteadyState restoring the state of the HDD when you reboot providing a more convenient interface than a virtual machine.
But instead of XP in the box, install a fast Linux distro with Firefox on it.
Another options would be to App-V Internet Explorer so you have a real nice sandbox with no access to the local machine.
Since the stock scanner is based on ClamAV (commercial AV engines are available as well) you may want to make sure it's compatible with the current signatures since ClamAV's updates are now disabling scanner versions < 0.95.
Rather then trying all sorts of desktop level solutions, I was thinking about maybe some sort of Proxy in addition to symantec for when they browse these sites?
Note in 7 the function has been incorporated in order to correctly handle OS and anti-virus definition updates for which SteadyState is fundamentally flawed in design.
They all have XP and Symantec AV installed but they still get hit fairly often.
I have employees that have to search sketchy virus-ridden websites as part of their job.
Puppy Linux could be installed on a 500Mb VMWare VHD and it only needs 128Mb RAM to run.
A backup of the known good system set up the way you like can be stored on a CD or a network share.
To actually address your specific question, we've used HAVP on pfSense at several small remote offices for a while.
I found this to be a stable solution that caught some viruses and didn't use too much CPU.
Configuring it to work as a transparent upstream for squid on the same pfSense box took a little fiddling, but once it was up and running it seems to work fine, though a little more hardware was helpful than a router or proxy might otherwise need for the same number of users.
So it should be responsive enough and also not tax the host system too much.
Agree as well that a VM is a good solution, and with things like Qubes(alpha) and ImmunOS (beta) in the works this approach may get easier.