It has nothing to do with encodings since the Windows console always uses Unicode internally.
it sends these sequences to another program which is responsible for actually rendering the bytesequences.
If you want to see Japanese output, for example, you have to change your System Locale to Japanese and reboot.
so, the solution to your problem (seeing any unicode-character in the 'console / terminal' of windows) is: use a font for the program which has (almost) every glyph for (almost) any given unicode bytesequence in it.
This is a very old question, but all of the answers given here are wrong.
It can, however, display DBCS (Double-Byte Character Set).
Based on your username I suspect you mainly work with asian languages.
to do that, it has to search in a font for the glyph.
The characters are simply not available in the fonts you use, which are designed for programming and European languages.
You will never see Unicode output on the Windows command line (CMD.exe).
Windows tools operate normally in unicode mode (as you saw by piping the output of dir into a file and opening that file with an editor):
to be able to display these sequences, this program has to map the sequence to a glyph.
this mapping only works IF the font has a glyph for the given byte sequence.
if the font does not have a glyph for the given sequence, then the program can not display the byte sequence produced by, for example, dir.
Windows supports Japanese Shift-JIS, Simplified Chinese, Korean, and Traditional Chinese "Big5" DBCS code pages.
again: dirproduces bytesequences, which sometimes are purely in the ASCII-range, sometimes they are in the unicode range (depending on what filenames it finds).
In other words, CMD supports Unicode, but it doesn't display Unicode.
Incidentally, you can pipe UTF-16 (inaccurately used interchangeably with "Unicode" by Microsoft) to a file, then open that file in, say, Notepad, and view the Unicode characters.
I don't have access to Windows at the moment, but I remeber that I could print Greek characters after switching to the Lucida Console font.
to display any character on the screen the program from step 3 has to lookup the glyph appropriate for the given byte sequence.
You can also mark and copy the gibberish text from CMD.exe and paste it into Notepad and see the Unicode characters.
otherwise the visual result differs, sometimes you see '?