I'll just throw in my two cents from a student perspective - the lectures I follow most closely are the ones which are interactive.
playful learning approach, to catch motivation for coding, enhance interest in the subject, then "powerpoint" lectures to explain how it all works.
It's a little tool that let's you do small quizzes within the lecture.
The main problem I guess is, that all of this can be very time-consuming.
Students appreciated the interactivity and direct feedback.
If the share of wrong questions is too high (I usually used a threshold of about 25%) I can try to explain the topic differently and clarify on misconceptions.
I had fantastic lectures during which the professor "only" talked / showed powerpoint slides, but I had even better ones where the prof might not have had  the same rethoric ability, but was able to integrate students and lead them to interact with the subject on their own.
(not on an obligatory basis - obligatory tasks often killed curiosity to go further/look outside the box, at least in my case)
Adding to the already given list, I had good results using PINGO.
As the quizzes are done anonymously, so nobody can be blamed for wrong answers.
No matter how good a person can present a subject, if I can somehow interact with the subejct (starting from having to think for 2 minutes about possible solutions all the way to a "coding contest" over the course of 2 weeks) the motivation and the learning process are taken to a entirely different level.
So I guess at some level you need to balance it, introduction with a (e.g.)
This usually led to about 3/4 of the students participating (100+ students in the audience) and oftentimes to an active discussion about the results afterwards.
And they are a great vehicle for teaching inheritance.
The result can be shown immediately using a projector.
These techniques help, but I feel like I can do more.
My students love event-driven programming and GUIs.
Students will use their mobile phones to give their answers (no registration required for them).
I usually do one or to quizzes after each small topic - resulting in 5 to 10 quizzes per 90min lecture.
These become objects of fascination and obsession.