Yes, one would think that "details" would mean actual details, not just date and time.
This is easy to correct, as the ics file is a text file,
To delete the line, you could use a batch command (in a .bat file)
Open the menu next to Detail and specify Full Availability
You say you have managed to export all Outlook appointments and your only
I have tried checking the "Include details of items marked private".
But like 50% of their entries were manually marked private.
So trying to help someone convert their Outlook calendar to ics to share online.
check the box next to Include details of items marked private
You may of course just use a text editor to replace all occurrences of
For the benefit of future readers, here is how to export all the
Seems like quite a bit of manual labor, unless there is some way to do both steps as a batch.
Even though checking the "Include details of items marked private" box does save the dates and starting and ending times of private items in the ICS file, it does NOT include any of the actual meeting information such as title, people, etc.
The title of the item will be "Private appointment" even if you set class to public.
So is there a way to mass unprivate these entries or get this from an export?
Editing the ICS to remove the CLASS: PRIVATE from items, as suggested here, does NOT allow one to see the actual content of the item because no such information is saved in the ICS file.
Then save the ICS file, then go into that file and edit the CLASS to be private on those items, searching for them based on the marker created.
This will send their stuff to ics but it just shows Private Appointment and they need the name of the meeting/whatever.
The only workaround I can think of is to remove the private label from these meetings in Outlook but put in some other marker that they are private.
There actually apparently is no way to solve this problem without changing the items in Outlook first.
You need to either delete the CLASS clause, as the default is public,
Open the Date Range pull-down menu and select Whole Calendar
All it does is that it includes the private items, instead of leaving them out of the ICS file completely.