If you want to self-publish and sell your first game successfully, you will have little other choice than to create lots of attention, and a gameplay video seems unavoidable to do that.
If you have found a truly innovative and cool setting, awesome!
As for your ability to sue in that case, I don't know, but if you have a case, you can easily generate a lot of negative press for the offender for free by turning to various gaming web sites, kind of David-vs-Goliath style.
In that case, I'm not even sure there is much left to truly innovate, but even if you do, there isn't much to stop others from exploring the setting further, and there shouldn't be!
A "setting" is a pretty broad term, if we are talking about the same thing: something like Steampunk, or SciFi, or Medieval, that's a setting, right?
As for copying a game: It is already illegal to commercially copy and use your actual assets, or make assets that are extremely similar.
As for copying game concepts, or ideas: You already mentioned that the shooting genre is highly derivative, like many others.
Copying mechanics is really part of the industry; without it, 99% of all games simply wouldn't exist.
Showing off your game seems to be a necessity, since as a new game developer you don't have the exposure or the fan base to create attention without showing actual game footage.
As for fears of plagiarism, having the largest possible upfront attention should actually be positive for you.
A company like Blizzard could put out the most cryptic and nondescript announcement about a possible future announcement, maybe, when it's done, and still get everyone into a feeding frenzy.
Ideas are cheap and plentiful, it's the execution that matters and that people are willing to pay for.
Be the first to exploit it for what it's worth and accept the fact of life that others will follow your success to try and repeat it.
So in a way, being the first to the attention market can actually provide more protection from outright plagiarism than if you released it quietly and it turns into a sleeper hit.
For that, however, you first need a public record that you are indeed the original author, and a successful Kickstarter is about as public as it gets for newcomers nowadays.