The best thing to do would be to find libssl.so.10 from a working computer running the same version of openssl that you were (a different centos machine running the same version should be sufficient), and use a USB stick to copy the file back into place.
The end solution was me installing the server OS on my laptop with VirtualBox inatalled.
to locate the real .so file, if you finded it, recreate the soft link with:
Which any luck you'll now be the brand new owner of a fresh libssl.
The first step is to see exactly what package you need to install for that file.
Once you have the file downloaded you can reinstall the package by issuing a
You mention using apt-get so I'm going to assume you're using Ubuntu.
is there a reliable way I can back down all of my data while i still have an active connection.
I fetched the files from my virtualbox guest and put them on the server using a USB Drive as @Falcon Momot metioned.
You will get output similar to this, from my Ubuntu 12.04.2 system
and find in the program the "potential" shared libraries locations with:
Maybe the programs (now: apt-get) try to reach the shared libraries in a specified path, which compiled into the program, locate your program with:
most commands including wget give me something to the ends of libssl.so.10: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
In order to fix this you need to replace the file.
Searching in that list I can find that I need to download the file libssl1.0.0_1.0.1-4ubuntu5.10_amd64.deb using the method of your choice.
aha it's use statically /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2
One way that's been mentioned is to copy the library from another system, another way is to reinstall the package that provides it.
Did you really deleted the real .so file or only the soft link which pointed to real .so file, so can the library creators dinamically refresh libraries whitour recompile all of programs in system.
I ended up using virtualbox for playing around with stuff before I did it on the actual server.
This tells us that I need to go find libssl1.0.0 version 1.0.1-4ubuntu5.10 and install it.