If you are starting off from a blank slate, ubuntu or debian would be a good choice.
If your admin is familiar or even passionate about existing version of linux, then you should stick with that, unless you have a good reason to go with Ubuntu.
Word processing users frequently fewer support people than do programmers, or engineers or technical users.
There are number of open source "groupware" applications (Zimbra comes to mind, initially) that could fill some of the PIM void in OpenOffice, as well.
I agree with Dana the Sane about having a Windows box handy somewhere, just in case somebody brings in something you can't get to work on linux quickly.
There will undeniably be some ramp up time if your users have only ever used Windows based machines but I can't see any reason why it wouldn't be a fine solution.
I'd consider employing a contractor / consultant early on to help in defining the initial requirements and getting the ball rolling.
Is Ubuntu a suitable distribution for an Admin (or two) to maintain, and keep control of, or should they take a serious look at Red Hat / SuSE / other?
Either your existing Admins should choose the technology based on what they are already comfortable working with, or you should hire admins for a specific technology.
I think the biggest issue they'd have would be the user support - answering questions from end users who aren't (I'm assuming) that familiar with Ubuntu.
If you're talking about admins with some other Linux experience, I wouldn't consider the learning curve for Ubuntu to be that steep.
As long as you're just getting started there is no reason not to go with linux for your desktops.
Your admin/support to user ratio is usually determined by the sort of users involved.
Getting an expert on-board for the initial deployment might save some time.
There's nothing that you can't do w/ Ubuntu that you can do w/ any other Linux distro.
This certainly all seems feasible to me (and actually sounds like fun and a nice break from the monotony of the nearly Windows-only world I work in... >smile<).
Assuming an Admin is competent enough to 'keep up' (and possibly gets help from "paid support", but not required), and assuming that possible incompatibilities with other people using Microsoft Office documents don't matter:
Once you've got network-wide authentication, email, file sharing / storage, backups, shared printing, and any line-of-business applications planned out and rolling, you should be able to make adding / replacing PCs into a procedure that you can reproduce w/o expensive contractor labor.
A small startup of approx 10 - 20 employees is looking into using Open Source / Free technology to save money on Operating System license fees, etc.