There's a way to power up a PSU without the motherboard connected (you can see that here: http://gideontech.com/content/articles/196/1 ).
It was assembled 7 months ago, while the PSU is two weeks old, though it is not a good brand.
If the PSU still doesn't stay on, then you obviously have a bad PSU.
I tried removing and connecting again the connectors to the motherboard, I tried to unplug it for a half minute, but nothing seems to work.
It is possible that there is something shorting out the motherboard.
Without knowing much about your power supply and your technical depth; seems you are able to remove the PSU.
Perhaps the PSU has been overloaded by all of the components inside the computer (this could happen if you get a PSU that too few watts for what you are trying to power)?
If it does stay on, either the MB or the PSU is bad.
When I try to reboot it, a led on the case fan lights up for a split second and then turns off.
With only the motherboard plugged into the power supply, try turning the computer on.
Often they have an internal fuse that can be replaced inside, but in some cases maybe not.
given that power is supplied to it, it should start up.
Check to see if there are any loose screws inside the case.
You can either order a new one online or take this to a shop that might be able to test it.
If the power supply still doesn't turn on with just the motherboard, try unplugging the motherboard.
Even if it was your MB or some other part, the fan on the PSU should still work and supply power.
connect a wire from green to ANY black in the large 24/20-pin ATX-cable.
remove all unnecessary hardware such as HDD, sound card, external hardware except monitor.
I was using my computer when suddenly it shut down.
If it stays on, then that will tell you there's a problem with either the amount of components you are running, or a problem with one of the individual components.
I've see this behavior come about due to a screw getting lost in the case and shorting a couple pins on the motherboard.
I would suggest unplugging all of the components (optical drive, hard drive, etc) from the power supply.
Try only one RAM-stick, try it in another slot, change ram-stick.