Then establish contacts with business representatives of the company holding the IP and pitch the project.
First time: programmer who worked for me made a PC version of a board game (I made some art for it just because it was a fun little project).
projects - a great opportunity for them I thought.
To add to Josh Petrie's answer when you want to use someone's copyright you have to negotiate with them, if you already have your game you can't really go back and will have to take whatever deal they offer you and they know this.
You still have a very slim chance of getting anywhere, unless the company is small and/or you are already an established developer with a track record, but at least yo won't have anything they can take away from you, and if they never even want to talk to you you can still apply your own IP to the game and ship it.
This makes first making a game and then getting copyright a great way to lose any potential income/be forced to ask money for it to pay for the rights to the game.
My advice: don't sink much time into a project that you don't have iron-clad rights to.
First, if you have built your prototype using the actual IP, then you have almost certainly committed (in most jurisdictions) copyright infringement or some similar IP law violation -- it doesn't matter that you have kept the project private.
He approached the rights holders, a large toy company.
While I would like them to say yes to me, if I was in their shoes I would do the same thing unless the studio with the proposal had a very good track record of making profitable games.
It's very hard to find the right contacts to get a proposal heard; this is generally not how most games get made.
They had no idea what to do with the game, and after a few months of considering it they told us to drop it.
But it's extremely unlikely and a huge risk for you in terms of your opportunity cost.
Second time: 18 years ago, several of my students make a prototype of a game to be given away for free with "Happy Meals".
Essentially a better business model for them is to pick a game with a proven financially successful track record and have a branded version of that made, it is a much easier sale internally (often the people making the calls are more interested in facts and figures and bottom lines than qualities that are hard to define and maybe personal).
They tried for a year to contact McDonalds and make a presentation.
Their response has been go off and make the game with our own IP, when it has been a proven success they will consider putting their IP in it.
Either make a simple/small prototype and pitch it, or make the game without the IP, and pitch it somewhere along the way (but be prepared to leave the IP out and continue).
That isn't to say that it's impossible -- there are cases where this has worked.
A few years later they made PC games from several of their board game properties and gave them away; their games were about the same quality as ours, and they paid someone else to make them.
If they see it and say "no" they will almost certainly do so in a way that legally required you to abandon your work.
Designer wants money and what turns into totally unworkable artistic control; project is eventually cancelled, despite the fact that the game was looking great up until then.
I have spoke to the "right people" at a couple of studios that own IP for large/successful IP typically in the TV/film space, and asked them if they want to use their IP in one of our super, cool, amazing, etc.
They finally determined that to get a meeting with someone who could make a decision was going to cost 60-100K in agent fees, and the project died.
Game studios have their own talent and massive pool of ideas, and non-game companies tend to be the ones who want to do the approaching, and have their own list of people they like to work with.
It's unlikely that the IP holder will appreciate that, and will likely simply issue a cease & desist (many forms of IP law mandate that the IP holder take the requisite action to protect their IP or they lose the right to do so; so it's not necessarily out of malice).
That said, I wish you the best of luck, my experience is limited to responses from a couple of studios, if you excite the right person at the right company maybe you will find success.
Most game companies will refuse to look at / open unsolicited game submissions in order to protect themselves from potential litigation in the future.
Some variant of this holds for other media companies.
My advice to you would be to build the game you want without invoking somebody else's IP at all.
Third time: big-budget movie game, company negotiated the rights with the mega-studio, sinks 4 million into production, then after a few month's work a lawyer shows up and explains that a certain crucial IP belongs not to the studio, but to his client, who designed the IP for the studio but only gave them the movie rights; he retained all other media rights.
The likelihood of this approach producing the results you want is effectively zero.