Can any two devices on different subnets communicate with each other?
Separate Network means, each network has own broadcast domain.
A router is necessary for L3 communication to take place.
As per my knowledge, 2 VLANs cannot have same IP address range.
When sending a frame, a source host will put its own MAC address in the source field and the destination MAC address in the destination field (Not to be confused with the IP address which operate at Layer3 and are added as source/destination of the Layer3 packets that are encapsulated in Layer2 frames).
It is a means of logically dividing one physical switch into multiple virtual switches.
The likely source of your question is the common perception that a single VLAN is associated to a single IP subnet.
In this process the switch also looks at the source MAC address and adds it to the MAC-address table associated with the incoming port and its VLAN.
Both are possible, although you really should understand how this works and more importantly why you would want to do so before you do.
you don't need router when switch is not able to provide routing function.
What you need here is a Layer3 device (like a Router or a Layer3 switch - could be the same switch we're already connected to if it has the capability) that will provide its own MAC address when asked what's the Layer2 (MAC) Address of a particular Layer3 (IP) address.
PS - In this explanation I assumed the destination MAC address is known just to prove how the system works.In reality without a gateway to answer on behalf of the destination outside the VLAN, the source won't even be able to craft and send a data frame.
Notice the use of packet here which implies the Layer 2 headers will be rebuilt once the gateway sends the packet further on the next network segment.
I think You have good Understanding about Subnet Masking.
Now if you want to communcate between hosts that are on different VLANs, this can't be done with a Layer2 switch only because, per the above explanation, even though the MAC destination (aka MAC address of the host in the other VLAN) will be unknown, the frame will not be sent out ports in other VLANs.
This now allows devices on one switch to communicate devices on the second switch...at least at L2.
While this is often the case, it is not always so.
If you simply want L2 communication between two different VLANs, all you need to do is provide a connection between the two.
By using VLANs you can split a switch into independent networks.
Therefore devices which in same broadcast domain can communicate in their broadcast domain.
Yes, they can when you are talking about L2 communications.
When a frame enters the switch on a port assigned to a VLAN, the switch will lookup the MAC-destination-address of the frame in the MAC-address-table for th VLAN of the incoming port.
This mechanism is called Proxy ARP and will help frames destined to hosts outside source's VLAN to reach a gateway that knows how to forward the packet further.
Say you have multiple devices all connected to one switch with no VLANs (or all to a single VLAN) with half of the devices using a 192.168.10.0/24 subnet and the other half using 10.168.10.0/24.
MAC-addresses are used to identify a host at the Layer2 (Data Link) at which the switch operates.
This separation is achieved by limiting what goes into the MAC-address-table of each VLAN.
No, not unless there is something that facilitates or allows the communication between the separate switches.
If you have two different physical switches (no VLANs configured) can the devices connected to each switch communicate?
Generally No network talk to any other network without having routing configurations.
The standard ARP mechanism used to find the Layer2 (MAC) address associated with Layer3 (IP) address of a field only works within a VLAN (braodcast domain)
Device is Same but Vlans define separate networks inside same switch.
You can use multiple different IP subnets on a single VLAN, and you can use a single subnet on multiple VLANs.
If you have L3 Switch, you can configure routing in same device.
To allow devices on two different L3 subnets to communicate, the traffic must be routed across the L3 boundary.
A MAC-address-table in a switch shows for each port the associated VLAN and the list of MAC addresses (hosts) that can be reached on that port.
Simplest solution is then providing a physical connection between the two switches (i.e.