Other targets are js files,autorun.inf,registry file,or even pdfs,htmls,pictures,movies(becuase these are bugs in these file formats or bugs parsing these files) could also be target.
Also a could antivirus could make sure you open no virusses.
Viruses that attach themselves to executables belong mostly to the past, when viruses were simple and easy to detect.
That means that no tools at your disposition can find even the smallest hint of its presence, and its use of the network card is invisible to your own O/S.
If you're using 'virus' in a generic sense, you may also include trojans
This is why I use mainly Mac; it is better protected against virusses because system files cannot be used easily to make virusses.
Today's viruses are themselves harmful executables, DLLs, BHOs, Java applets or Javascript scripts.
All system files from Windows are targets for virusses, this is why Windows lacks at security.
Just try to imagine the enormous sums that are involved and the percentage of this "crime-tax" on the world economy!
And there are some virus target at firmware like BIOS,netowrk interface card BIOS.etc.
Yes executables are main target of viruses.Actually all PE files(like sys dll etc) could be the target of viruses.
This applies to files containing macros (short for macroinstructions).
There is a whole class of viruses which can be attached to files which (while not executable in themselves) may have 'executable' content.
Some estimates put the average banks lose from fraud at 5% of the yearly income.
The aim is to trick you into executing these at least once (which is one too many), where they take control of your computer.
One virus is even a complete operating system by itself, so that it takes over the computer and runs your own O/S as a virtual machine.
We no longer have to deal with script kiddies, but rather with organized teams whose budgets may exceed those of law-enforcement agencies.
It corrupts the MBR to boot the virus, rather than your system.
You cannot ensure yourself you do not open a virus.
Still there is NO need to not open any EXE's later on.
Today's viruses are the product of organized crime.
They hide in various places, even in the BIOS, which means that even the old and trusted method of reformating the hard disk may not get rid of them.
But, make sure you verified the source before opening it.