Modern OSes may do routing, but it is better to buy hardware router which is a special type of computer with little CPU (not an x86 probably) and specail build of OS (could be linux or proprietary os like IOS or ZynOS or RouterOS).
It will give you ability to install SMTP (email) server, Web server on it etc, but it is risky to have "everything on one server" and could be harder to configure.
That machine is our Default Gateway and all internet connections go through this computer somehow.
I would check to make sure they don't have any complex iptables set up to route the traffic.
They might also have some specific DHCP set up to feed leases to specific devices.
They do not support mail server, but DNS and DHCP are almost always supported.
Home/SmallOffice models are really cheap (Zyxel Keenetic for example).
This term has different meaning and may confuse people.
This acts as a natural firewall because the devices behind the NAT are invisible unless you forward the public side to the private.
I'm a programmer not a network guy and I'm trying to gather information in order to replace that machine but I don't know what to call the service that 'provides a bridge to the Internet'.
So here's the general overview of a conventional "residential gateway", or router.
It sounds like you've got an actual computer doing this.
Where I work we have a very old Linux machine that is doing our DNS/DHCP and other network services.
The device/server then does what's called Network Address Translation, where the LAN devices (via DHCP) get a non-routing IP and look to the router as the gateway (i.e.
Stay with hardware router and install SMTP server on different machine, if you need.
You hook this device (WAN) to whatever your Internet source is (cable modem, DSL, etc).
Hardware routers do not require much power, they are quiet (no fan needed) and have good tools to configure them (web or console-based).
My plan was to deploy a Synology server to handle our DNS/DHCP/Mail etc.
But I don't know if I can provide the same bridge to the internet because I don't know what its called.
We're not a big company so I think that would be enough.
You need the following information to choose router: