I called our TLS provider and after talking to several NOC technicians, one of them had heard of the exact issue before.
For those interested, our TLS provider is Shaw Communications in Victoria, Canada.
(xcopy, robocopy and most FTP clients are 32 bit, even on a 64 bit Windows.)
That will depend on if you have access to run a program on the server itself.
It turned out that some of their layer 2 equipment was old and had issues with VHD data.
I see the various answers above and I realize that I still can't tell if you really tried to copy with a 64-bit copy program.
The solution was upgrading the firmware on these devices, which was performed by the TLS provider.
Can you give it a try with the 64-bit version of TotalCommander V8.0 ?
Will be interesting to see if that makes a difference.
This sounds like it might even be a permissions issue, when you try to copy the file to the network location it gets stopped or fails, perhaps you could try to create a network folder make it fully open, meaning shared to the "Everyone" Group and also set that way in the security tab.
Make sure the files inside the VHD are not in use and you have proper permissions to access them.
After troubleshooting this for many hours (and trying all the suggestions posted here), the issue turned out to be the TLS link between our main office and the datacenter.
Perhaps there might be a fix in the most recent driver for your machine.
(It is still a Release Candidate, but very stable.)
Out of curiosity, is one of the machines 32-bit, but the other is 64-bit?
If that fixes the problem, then it looks like a permissions issue, in fact since you mentioned the Linux copy failed sooner, it seems that permissions might be the problem.
Another thing and it might be a long shot, but have you tried updating the NIC drivers?
This KB is usually linked to see if tweaking NIC settings help.
Searching google for large file network copy failures and you'll find some threads talking about similar issues but not just vhd's.
(Just "copy /b chunk1+chunk2+chunk3  total.vhd" will do if you are not allowed to install additional software server-side.)
Also make sure the folder you are copying from has open permissions.
Remember this is just to see if the permissions are getting in the way, you can always tighten them up later once you get a staring point of the copy working properly.
You can allways use HJSplit (or the split function of TotalCommander) to split the file in 1GB chunks, but of course you must have a means of re-joining them on the server.
If so, can you try your copy with a 64-bit machine temporarily.
Another thing to try if the server has IPV6 enabled (usually does on W2K8): Disable IPV4 completely on the workstation so the copy will have to use IPV6.
Try Xcopy or Robocopy; at least one or both have a "resume" switch.