Given these, its not such a priority to separate the data, as you can easily restore it from the backup location.
If you're building a desktop system, i'd go for the data/non-data/swap split.
I would say it depends on what you are doing with the system.
There are three main drivers for keeping OS and Data separated storage-wise.
"Back in the day" we always segregated our OS drives (in Windows) from our Data drives.
Also, some operating systems (Windows is among them) don't take too kindly to resizing the OS volume, which means you generally need to give as much of it as it will need in its lifetime when you format the server.
Also, there is another factor - apart from the really big stuff (yup, that pr0n again) there are plenty of online backup tools (or local backup utilities) that perform continuous backups.
I'd say that its still nice to have - you have 100Gb of data (too much pr0n dude :) ) and you need to reinstall the OS (or, in keeping with Windows history, re-install it regularly to remove built-up cruft) then its very simple matter to keep it intact, than if it was on the C partition as well.
For instance logs and temporary data were typically seperated because those storage areas got a lot of wear-and-tear, but it wasn't much of an issue if they were lost.
I also try to put apps on a different partition too, so that my OS backups are a lot smaller.
Even in fully virtualized environments where the OS and Datavvolumes themselves are being housed in the same actual storage, not being able to resize your OS volume can be a major handicap.
However, I'd say there is a problem there as Windows especially likes to stuff all kinds of stuff in directories on the C drive - its not just 'users' directory, but all the app data and various bits and pieces that end up stuck in ProgramData too.
Now that server storage is just as likely to be on a SAN (where the disk resources are shared by many individual operating systems and applications), does it really matter any more that the OS and Data partitions be segregated at the volume level?
If you may need to reinstall the os you might save yourself some hassle by putting all of your data on a separate partition.
Historical Linux (well, Unix really) partitioning recomendations are partly due to its origins as a (networked) mainframe server OS, which in turn i suspect was influenced by the (then) relative unreliability of hardware.
In the Linux world, although I am much less familiar with it, I am aware that the wisdom dictates even more volumes defined and used in a best-practice configuration.
Contrast this to Data volumes which can and frequently are resized many times over the lifetime of a server.
Unless you are building a server that's expecting to take serious abose, stuff like seperate /usr/local and /var/tmp just becomes a space allocation headache.
Windows 2008+ is now recommending 30GB for the C:\ drive these days, a far cry from the 10GB we were using on Server 2003; this is something that will nail many Windows admins as they make the conversion from 2003 to 2008.