The wiki is mainly used for documentation/help but it also includes change logs suitable for end users.
I like how this method keeps the two flows of information together, in the repository, where they should be.
I am hoping to move over to a web based system like redmine that can track the enhancements and bugs.
I use a changelog to communicate bug fixes, changes, or new features to end users.
Generally they are not suitable for release notes.
The change log is updated daily, referring to version control if required, with final edit and polish when the build is released.
All projects I work on have a wiki for use by developers and usera.
Many users, especially the bill payer when working remotely, appreciate the daily updates.
What you want is a standard method for 'publishing' a major version along with a changelog.
With the prefixes on any changelog line in the commit history I can also automate it.
This could be done with a script that downloads from the repository and displays the changelog, via a web-based system, it could just be a shared directory on the LAN, an FTP site, etc., etc.
I place changelog lines in the repository history via commits, along with the more technical information that goes into commits.
When I release I can easily pull all the latest changelog lines and update the changelog/website/etc.
What I do is keep a more friendly 'release notes' document for this purpose.
I model my changelog on tortoisesvn which uses BUG: CHG: NEW:.
For example here is the command I used to pull the messages out of svn:
I would choose the source control system that your development team prefers (leaning towards git if they're apathetic!).
not to technically) there are ways to pull that information from the repo.
This joins the two tasks together in time, recording technical changes as well as what should be visible at a higher level to users.
You can use git in house and then simply make cuts out of the repository for major versions (tarballs).
Its been my experience that the commit messages usually contain highly technically details about the changes being committed.