The device is indeed fine for the first two tasks, but trying to use the web often kills the system, even with the built-in Internet Explorer 11.
I've implemented the most common memory management improvements like increasing virtual memory, turning off inessential startup processes and the like, which gave me a bit extra, but not enough.
Green Browser about 250MB (but horrible interface).
Alternatively, you can use SlimJet based on Chromium, which is lightweight and features an automatic memory usage optimization.
In a misguided attempt to save money, I bought myself a windows 7 netbook with just 1GB of RAM.
Notepad) word processing and web browsing I figured I'd be okay.
Since I only wanted it for music, super-lightweight (i.e.
Animated Google Doodles are enough to bring everything to a crashing halt.
There is also Light based on Firefox, which has some components stripped off.
Or am I doomed to spend my browsing life on my netbook using Lynx?
I'm satisified with its feature, don't feel any difficulty switching from Google Chrome.
Qupzilla is a combination of QT + Firefox browsers.
It is very lightweight, using only 20MB at startup, and very fast, using Opera Turbo.
All of the browsers CPU usage was of a similar order of magnitude.
So I've just checked out a few browsers and monitored memory and CPU usage with Process Explorer, with tabbed Gmail, Facebook, Unrealitymag, an arb page, and localhost.
And it'll only take an extra 1GB anyway, so that's not much of a solution.
I hope you are already familiar with firefox browser.
Chrome ground my machine to a halt when I was working with docs, spreadsheets, etc.
I know I could upgrade the RAM, but to add insult to injury, doing so will invalidate my warranty, so I'm not doing that until the guarantee expires.
Recently I came through Dillo and QupZilla browsers.
So this is Firefox features with Qt Interface for application.
Or are there some sensible configuration options I can take without destroying the browsing experience (i.e.
Are there any other browsers with a lower memory footprint than IE11?
Dillo Developed on C & C++ , its still missing some minimum features but its good for a light weight browser where Browsing & viewing webpages is the matter.
Couldn't say if it's the lowest-memory usage brower, anyhow it uses memory much less than Chrome.