Today, that same feature of Zip files that could have easily and simply installed that new version of Super Pong onto your PC, can now instead easily and simply install untended malware (virus, etc).
I'm more or less translating from his german mail now: In different versions of ms-windows, a zip file will be directly displayed as a folder.
From what I can tell, MS doesn't think executable zip files is a vulnerability, its existence has been well known for Decades.
Executable code stored there will be of course executed without asking the user for permission.
Windows has zip file execution, and its not just win9X and NT this exists even today with windows 7,8,10.
Unfortunately, users like to click on things inside normal folders, because they can see them.
A executable (self-extracting) ZIP archive would not be a *.zip file, but must be a *.exe file, right?
The only other real problem I can think of here is when the user clicks on the zip file to make it display like a folder there could potentially be security exploits within Windows' own zip library, as I am guessing they do not have a lot of desire to make it "better" vs developing other aspects of Windows.
In both cases, the zip file will be scanned for special headers with additional directives.
How is "displaying a list of contents of the archive" the same as extracting and executing stuff from the archive?
It lets you look inside zip archives as if they were folders, so to the USER they appear as if they are just normal files.
A popular development in zip file extraction and execution is to include a shell-script or java-script that has no inherently malicious code (so you virus scan passes it up while the thing is starting to run) then it downloads and executes the malicious code.
He replied that (without offence), I would have a great lack of information.
The system antivirus then needs to intercept this action and block the attempt to use a file with a virus in it, whether it is an EXE or a bad Excel spreadsheet macro or whatever.
Altough I know that mailing executable zips is 99% surely a trojan, I was confused.
When they do, the system uses the built-in zip extraction library to extract the file to a temp directory and then execute it.
I can't find too much information on some of these, I will update if I find any more info.
In the current version of osX, a attached zip file will directly be extracted.
There may or may not be a windows policy edit to allow or disallow zipped file execution by default, (looking for that is why I ended up on this page, if I find it, I'll let you know).
I repied that to the staff and told him that - afaik - no operating system on the world would ever treat and execute a *.zip file directly as a program.
Other decompression utilities for windows know better than to execute code while decompressing a file.
(Google, in my opinion frequently has very decent security, so I wanted to test it.)
Windows looks at extensions to determine how to process files, but any file can be executable.
I had a conversation today with a staff member of my e-mail hoster, because the hoster just blocked some mails of customers of me, because they contained ZIP files.
This is a "feature" in windows until it is recognized as a vulnerability.
Back in those days, a Zip file became a popular way of passing around programs (apps, executables).
I uploaded some malicious scripts to Google yesterday, and even Google allowed the code to be sent, although it did flag it as potentially dangerous.
added a "zip folders" feature that as far as I know remains to this day.
Does that guy know more about zip files than me after working with them since forever?
And altough I think auto-extracting files like apple mail does is a absolute no-go, this would still not execute anything.
I would always suggest being as cautious to open a Zip file attachment, as one would be to open up an executable (.exe, .com, .bat).
To make it even easier for someone to install their new program, Zip files were enhanced so that they could automatically start an execution, typically to do the install, when they were simply opened.
After I asked why the mails have been blocked, they replied that the customer had mailed me a executable zip file and because there are currently a lot of mails with trojans attached, all mails with executable zip files would be automaticaly blocked.
I agree with you, but can see why a service provider would choose to block .zip files.
They patch exploits as they are discovered, naturally, but this might lead to inherent distrust of the integrated zip folders feature by administrators.