Certain things in the system are responsible for certain resources/processes.
If you have any knowledge of networking and most of this sounds familiar it's pretty much similar in concept.
The north bridge indirectly controls the south bridge via the PCI "bus" as well as LAN and SCSI systems too.
There are only 3 "buses" in any computer: Data, Address and Control.
In this picture from http://en.kioskea.net/contents/pc/bus.php3 that explains the buses in a computer
Therefore, your diagram is a horrible example of any of the actual "buses" being used.
However, the control bus can get very complicated since it entails pretty much everything else including (and probably especially) timing.
here's a picture from Ars Technica that may be clearer
It is an excellent visual on what certain sub systems do and even what directly controls certain resources, but there is absolutely no indication of what's actually being hard wired or how an entire computer really works at least in terms of bus structure.
I think this image from Wiki might be a more useful mneonmic device for you to learn from: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/bd/Motherboard_diagram.svg (can't embed SVG files).
However, the south bridge directly controls ISA, USB and IDE devices.
You're probably making this harder than it needs to be.
The dark blue lines represent what is connected to the bus.
As you might expect, the CPU is at the top of the heap and in charge of pretty much everything.
In fact, the entire diagram might be considered to be a description of the control bus - and only the control bus.
A bus is just a medium of communication with the following properties:
Data and address buses are pretty obvious and relatively simple.
Right below (in hierarchy) there is the north bridge which directly controls video and RAM.
So if you wanted to retrieve data on a IDE drive your CPU would go through the north bridge which then requests this over the PCI bus where to the south bridge in turn gets the IDE resource to provide it (or more accurately, the south bridge tells the IDE device when to place the info on the address/data bus - which the CPU is really in control of).