Now, depending on what what you see here, you might draw one of several conclusions:
Curl is fine, but doesnt give much feedback when things go wrong.
(As you can tell) wget may give you more information, but as yoonix mentions, Server side (ie webserver error logs) is the place to look.
One possible reason you are getting an empty reply is that you're trying to hit a website that is a name-based virtual host.
So, I understand that an empty response means that curl didn't get any response from the server.
The response that your connection attempt returns will be exactly what cURL sees when it tries to connect (but which it unhelpfully obfuscates from you).
Once connected, paste the following (taken from your curl output):
You can test this by simply using telnet instead of going through curl:
You’re attempting to connect to a website that’s a name-based virtual host, meaning it cannot be reached via IP address.
But what more specific info can I derive from cURL here?
Try running curl_getinfo($ch, CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE), and check the result.
A quick solution is to disable Kaspersky's protection on the port you're trying to reach on the server (tcp 80 for exmaple).
You can test that on the client side by simply changing the 'Host' line above; replace www.example.com with the site you're trying to reach:
Something’s gone wrong with the hostname – you may have mistyped something.
No problem, that's precisely what I'm trying to figure out.
It was able to successfully "connect", so doesn't that involve some bidirectional communication?
Running curl inside bash will generate the same error and that's because Kasperksy is blocking it from connecting to HTTP/s.
Note, I'm a bit green at this level of networking, so feel free to provide some general orientation material.
Likely you are getting a reply that does not contain any data.
Note, I've verified my service is up and returning responses.
Try this -> Instead of going through cURL, try pinging the site you’re trying to reach with Telnet.
The issue may also be tied to the 100-continue header.
I'm not looking for help that would be dependent upon my environment, I just want to know how to collect information about exactly what part of the communication is failing, port numbers, etc.
Note that using GET instead of POST for parameters  will give you a more concrete answer.
You likely will need to troubleshoot this from the server side, not the client side.
You should see the response exactly as curl sees it.
If that's the case, depending on server configuration (the site you're trying to hit happens to be configured as the default) you cannot reach the site by IP address without a little bit of work.
I believe you are confusing an 'empty response' with 'no response'.
I want to know how to proceed in troubleshooting why a curl request to a webserver doesn't work.
This is done by going to Kaspersky - Settings - Network Settings - check "Monitor selected ports only" - Select ports - double clikc on the port (80) and select inactive