All files there are associated with the game Forza Horizon 4 that I installed recently from the Microsoft Store, so in my case it came out clean.
When this happened, a necessary certificate was created.
An icon appears in the system tray, and a popup tells me "Encrypting file system - Back up your file encryption key".
Also do a anti-virus scan just to be on the safe side.
Now I deleted that certificate, and I don't get the popup anymore.
I got a bit paranoid when I saw the popup appear since I associate unwanted encryption of the disk with ransomware.
Is my explanation plausible, or could something else have happened?
The result was multiple files in the following directory:
If it is from some unknown location or software, clean it.
I ran certmgr.msc, and I have seen that there was a certificate under "Personal".
The only thing I did yesterday was install Office 2010, and use it to save a document onto my SkyDrive (just out of curiosity).
I had this same message, but it was from browser "Sphere", which is not malicious.
Ran scans with Malwarebytes and Windows Defender to be sure, and those also came out clean.
I think that created the certificate, and Windows prompted me to save it.
if it is from software that you know is clean, dismiss.
I started getting a strange message when I start my computer.
As the top rated comment recommended I did the following:
Since Vista, Windows asks you periodically to backup the encryption keys for these certificate files.
Plug in a USB stick and select Back Up Now and follow the backup guide.
I have searched using Total Commander on all the partitions for files that have the "encrypted" attribute, but I found nothing.
At one point you installed something like a program, an ID method to do banking, or a driver for a device you plugged in (such as a smartphone).
So in short: It can both be clean (as it seems to be in my case, Microsoft Store apps) and malware (as in the top voted case) - so take precautions and check what files that are being encrypted to determine what it is if you see this popup.
To my knowledge, I don't have any encrypted files on my partition.