Make sure to uncheck this checkbox for both IPv4 and IPv6.
At the same time, I need to be constantly surfing for info and also need youtube for my background music... Now you definitely don't want to stream youtube off a VPN since that makes it sound like a Robot Singing!!!
I successfully used @TRS-80's technique to achieve this.
from russian forum: http://forum.ixbt.com/topic.cgi?id=14:43549
Usually I simply disable IPv6 protocol completely for VPN connection.
route -p add a.b.c.d/<CIDR> w.x.y.z or route -p add a.b.c.d mask e.f.g.h w.x.y.z
This ID can be found by executing netstat -rn, or, for more compact output, netstat -rn | grep -A10 'Interface List'.
A 'short' guide for noobs like me, who don't know much about networks.
where a.b.c.d is the target address/network and interface number is identifier of your VPN connection.
where 'VPN gateway' = 'your IP on VPN network' = w.x.y.z and target address/network = a.b.c.d.
And, finally, run a few tracert commands against both IP addresses which are supposed to be accessed via VPN and against those which should work without VPN.
if you have both IPV4 and IPV6 you have to uncheck the "Use default gateway on remote network" in both places, even if you only use IPV4
Cons: there is no Get-VpnConnectionRoutes cmdlet so it can be hard to manage these rules.
Cons: need to re-create routes with new ID if you delete your VPN connection.
Pros: necessary routes are added each time VPN connection is established and deleted each time it is disconnected.
Pros: no need to change anything if your VPN address (w.x.y.z) will change.
If you added persistent routes, you can check them by executing netstat -rn | grep -A10 'Persistent Routes'.
route -p add a.b.c.d/<CIDR> 0.0.0.0 IF <interface number>
I work from home and have to VPN onto the corporate network for my email (I hate webmail!!
I don't know exactly where and how these rules are configured, but such scenario exists - probably it is some magic done by VPN network administrators.
Not much new here, but a summary of all good options described in previous answers and in other related threads.
Add-VpnConnectionRoute -ConnectionName '<VPN connection name>' -DestinationPrefix a.b.c.d/<CIDR>
2.2) Add permanent route via VPN network interface:
For this you must uncheck Use default gateway on remote network checkbox in VPN settings.
It is (sometimes) possible that unchecking that checkbox will be enough for normal work - in my experience, necessary routes (which will direct necessary traffic via VPN) can be added automatically after VPN connection is established.
Cons: you will have to re-create routes if your VPN IP will change.
You can find w.x.y.z by executing ipconfig and looking for your VPN connection name or, if you use PowerShell, you can get compact output by executing ipconfig | grep -A5 PPP (which will output 5 lines after finding each PPP connection).
save as file (ex: vpn_route.vbs) and after vpn connected execute command