In larger environments where you use a patch management system, it's common to review everything that gets released and only bother with what is absolutely necessary and that usually amounts to about 10% of what Microsoft releases.
Unless there's a real bleeping emergency (which I have hit a few times :( ), in which case PRODUCTION NOW.
This twin-approach ensures that our servers are reasonably, but not stupidly, up to date, that updates are driven by subject-matter-experts (i.e.
On top of this we apply an emergency update policy where we have the ability to deploy into reference, test and roll out urgent updates within a day or two if the severity is such - although this has only been used 2/3 times in the last 4 years or so.
Other updates only as required, after spending time in staging.
Security gurus will argue that this approach is problematic because if a hacker ever does get into your network, the unpatched servers will allow exploits to fritter through the network like wildfire and that's a reasonable argument.
There is no doubt zero-day security fixes must be applied right away; whereas Service Pack can wait after careful evaluations.
That's the important point: there is no right or wrong particular answer to this question; it's a matter of balancing stability vs. safety or features in your particular environment.
I have some servers that if I run Windows Update on them I'll be told I need 50+ patches but if I scroll through those patches and research each of them, I'll find that 90% of the items being patches are not security related but fix bugs that affect services I don't run on that box.
If you're talking about servers, consider a separate policy for servers that face the internet and those that don't.
These internet-facing servers get highest priority when it comes to security patches.
firmware, drivers, OS, app staff) not vendors but that it also allows rapid fixes if required.
Oh course we're lucky to have very few different hardware models across the whole business (<10 server varients) and sizable, and up to date, reference platforms to test against.
If your management chain understands that delaying patches for testing may make them more vulnerable to malware, thats fine.
I don't know about your servers but in my environment, maybe 10% of our servers have ports open to the internet.
I've worked at different firms that had policies all over the continuum from "apply patches ASAP, we don't care if they break something we have working -- we'll back them out then" to "nothing gets applied without two weeks of testing."
Problems exist when these tradeoffs are not understood.
Likewise, if they understand that applying patches as soon as they are available may not work or even break your particular system configuration, that is also fine.
I think the first thing to do is to "classify" updates by severity, and have patch schedule based on the classification.
If you're only relying on Windows Update for patches (you didn't mention which OS you're running but I'm mostly a Windows guy so this is my reference), take a look at the actual hotfixes that get released every month.
Security updates get sent to a staging server, then production after they've shown that they don't blow things up.
Servers that don't face the internet are lower priority.
My argument is that this debate about "to patch or not to patch" suggests you have to be one one side or the other when, really, this is a huge grey area.
Both extremes (and points in between) are fine as long as the Company understands the tradeoffs.
This is an endless debate and reasonable people will disagree.
I can only talk about servers but we have a 'Quarterly update' regime, on four predetermined and announced dates per year we bunch up update requests, apply them to our reference environment, run them for a month to test stability and if good roll out during the following n days/weeks.
Still, if you keep those internet-facing servers locked down tight and properly configure your firewall to only open those ports that are absolutely needed, I think this approach works and can often be used to appease managers that are afraid of patches.
If you're talking about user PCs, I agree they need to be updated.