If your user is root, your user may be able to upload a bogus firmware update to the drive, bricking it.
Not just for someone doing weird stuff, but also for a myriad of other cases, such as failed fans / high temperature, for failed drives (they do fail now and then, entirely on their own and with no abuse needed), failed RAM, ... ...
No actual risk, but monitoring your systems is always a good idea.
The platters in a hard drive are always spinning, except when in power save mode, especially in a server hard drive.
If someone is hitting the disk IO all the time then less throughput will remain for the rest of the system.
It must be some kind of spam for writing and deleting file over and over again.
Maybe your weaker consumer grade SATA drives might have a problem, just buy better quality and you won't be having the issue.
If you write to SD cards (flash without wear leveling) and you have no disk cache, then you can wear out the card.
They are spinning at the same speed whether the head is reading, writing, or idle.
I have 15k SAS hard drives that have taken this "supposed abuse" for 6-10 years without failure.
İt is not a real solution but i guess it will delay damage.
The read/write head does not actually touch the disk as it does in floppies so there's no chance for friction wear.
You can put some time issue and when someone after 1 time deletes or writes a file they should wait some time for write or delete other file exp 10 second.
The act of writing does not in itself wear or degrade a spinning hard drive.
I've never heard of a read/write head or arm wearing out in any non-ancient hard drive.
I don't believe your user can do this without root.
Lastly, it might hurt the performance of your system.
This still would not cause the "emergency offload" condition, just a spin-down/spin-up.
Perhaps by issuing the appropriate hdparm commands a user can tell a hard drive to power down, then up repeatedly.
Now, the act of bringing a hard drive to full RPM does stress the drive, as well as "emergency offloads" where the drive detects it's lost power and pulls the head away from the platter to avoid a head crash.