I can't explain why but from my experience, I'd never turn them off directly.
In my case, I also have a SMPS power supply links to router.
On the slimline drives, unlikely since the disc is physically attached by the user.
Installation guides for tape drives often mention a UPS (i.e.
In the process, there will likely be fluctuations in voltage (high and low).
(This is why many operating systems do disk checks on the first boot after a bad shutdown.)
I thought of editing the answer, but I'll add it here for now.
When I turned the power off, both router and computer lost the power.
If you're doing it a lot because the system is hanging, you'll want to address whatever's causing that more directly.
The power may go off and on more than once in a very short time.
To give some perspective, an LTO-3 drive feeds 680 m (2,231 ft) of tape in 80 seconds.
So even if the power went on/off several times, the first failure would keep the power off to the CPU until I reset the box.
On the standard tray drives, not that I've experienced.
Before uninterruptable power supplies were available to the little folk, I plugged in my computers through a homemade box that contained a relay that would open if the power failed.
I couldn't find anything authoritative, so this is just my experience.
When you hold the power button to shut down, most (but not all) operating systems attempt an orderly shut down.
It's the rapid, repeated on-and-off that can give your computer heartburn.
If the operating system has crashed, though, you run a slight risk of damage to your hard disk and subsequent data corruption or loss.
Ideally you'll use a software menu item to shut down, and avoid using the power button if you can.
The accepted answer covers electrical issues, but not mechanical ones.
The SMPS might have some impact to the computer's power too.
But filesystem structures could be left in an inconsistent state, leading to operating system or data errors when the system is used later.
Adding to the previous answers, it's been my experience that power outages (defined as power ceases coming into the home and nothing that needs volts will go) are frequently not simple now-it's-on-and-now-it's-off events.
Now that UPSs are so affordable, I don't run any computer without one.
At least my hard drive was damaged when I switch off the power outlet.