So, I'm looking for a next-next-finish style of incremental backup over SSH for windows with junction support :)
Few months back I had to do the same thing, but I finally ended up writing a unison + plink script to get it working.
Another method I've seen used successfully is to reverse the direction of the backup.
I also know about WinSCP, but I'm looking for something a little more complicated (and again, aware of junctions) :)
Personally, I find rsync to be too simple for Windows, so am automatically leery of something even more simple than that.
I know of tools like Delta Copy, but that doesn't work well, because it doesn't know about junctions on NTFS, resulting in infinite loops in directories in Windows 7.
However, if all you're looking for is file-backup from Windows, Rsync will definitely get the job done (within it's limitations).
I dont think there are ready made stuff out there to sync over ssh from windows.
I have yet to find any GnuTool method that can handle anything other than simple file-backup for Windows.
The way Microsoft SyncToy works is nice, but it doesn't support an SSH target...
If you're backing up the whole system, you might want to consider clonezilla.
The backup-server mounts the Windows share you want backed up, and then does whatever local-file based backup methods via that (again, rsync works well for this).
This would of course require that boot into the clonezilla environment and backup the whole disk to a ssh location.
http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/UnisonKeySetup
This is a problem since restoring a Windows machine from backup requires more than just "restore all the files, redo the boot environment, reboot".
I also know there are ways to do Rdiff-backup or Rsync, but I was looking for something a little more simple (and something aware of junctions).
And even those have trouble with locked and open files, since their home operating system (Posix-based *nix) still allows read access to all files.
There is also a front end to unison called winison.
I was wondering if people have any suggestions for backing up a Windows machine over SSH.