A warning should be more than sufficient and covers your back should anything unfortunate arise from a user playing your game, but if you do want to get it tested, the option is there.
But don't say things like 'epilepsy safe mode', you're opening yourself up to a world of legal pain then.
I'd prefer asking a doctor, an ophthalmologist or a neurologist.
There is software available to perform epilepsy testing as defined by OFCOM, known as the Harding Test.
To be sure you won't trigger crisis in anybody, document yourself or ask somebody who has a speciality: epilepsy is not well known because it's part or neurology.
The only thing I think I'm sure I know (and shouldn't be trusted), is that epileptic reactions are caused by blinking colors, meaning: very different colors (mainly meaning the hue component of the color) alternating at some kind of some particular threshold frequency; this may be linked to the fact the human eye cannot perceive animation beyond 60Hz.
Try to make your game somewhat less blinky, blinking less rapidly or just fade; it will be more quiet for the eye/brain.
Remember our brains aren't supposed to be used to artificial images and motion, so the more the thing you render compares to reality the more the better.
Unfortunately, the software seems to be commercial only and requires a data capture card for it to run, so it's not the most financially feasible solution for an indie dev.
However, there is an alternative for smaller companies at http://www.hardingtest.com which has reasonable rates without needing a dedicated machine to carry out the testing for you (you just upload a video of gameplay) - £75 for under 30 minutes, which isn't too bad.
This is tightly linked to how the brain computes back and perceive images, but maybe and especially motion.
If in doubt and if the effects can't be avoided, give people advance warning, and ideally an option to disable the effect.
Here is some guidance: http://gameaccessibilityguidelines.com/avoid-flickering-images-and-repetitive-patterns