Well, to begin with; they all share these features:
Another avenue would be to use a data warehouse as a service product.
Then look at your chosen vendors/products and see how they match up.
For example, if acquisitions are a strong possibility then incorporating dissimilar data sets should be considered.
Do your due diligence and you can get to a solution that works technically, financially and from a business standpoint.
Yes, these are cloud-based solutions but getting data up there requires appropriately sized and stable Internet connections.
Do they want a system that aggregates data back to the beginning of time and is loaded nightly and is missing current day transactional data?
The term "Data Warehouse" is sometimes used when it shouldn't be.
Are there any tradeoffs that would favor one solution over another?
There are many options today, so do your research.
Along the same lines as @Brent's statement of, "It depends a lot on what your definition of 'house' is", you need to find out what "Data Warehouse" means to those who requested it.
There are lots of materials and SQL groups I can get help from.
These products typically have features that will guide you in building your data warehouse.
Redshift is a big player in this area, and now there’s Amazon Athena, a serverless option, which seems to be for smaller data needs.
 http://searchdatamanagement.techtarget.com/definition/data-warehouse-as-a-service-DWaaS
•   Some level of administrative/management interface
I can tell you, from (not-so-pleasant) experience, that:
One of the first questions would be, what’s the difference?
Many vendors are offering this now, including Oracle, Snowflake, Microsoft and Amazon.
Other considerations will be unique to each business:
That should get you to a list of finalists to review closely.
Do they want real-time reporting including current transactional data with a time delay of no more than 1 - 5 minutes?
•   Limited or no software to purchase (IMO, this greatly depends on the tools you want or need for analyzing your data.)
I work for the insurance company little more than a year, my SQL experience around 2-3 years including SSIS, SSRS.