This may, depending on your router, be related to NAT settings.
You can click on the Documentation tab to download the manual.
I was able to, but it would time out on requests via the dynamic DNS before I enabled the NAT settings.
That way your machine will resolve using the internal address.
I ran a server from behind a WRT54G for some time, and had to set up the NAT options so that connections would come into to the server instead of the router itself.
I have a WGT634U wireless router on my home network with a webserver at address 192.168.1.200.
I may only complete 1 of 5 requests, the whole process taking upwards of 20 minutes each time.
I can use IP masking with a tool like Tor, but it is painfully slow and maintaining a session is error prone.
Unfortunately, the manual suggests LAN computers can't use the WAN IP address to access the LAN computer web server.
But I haven't had too much success with these and it may end up disabling access to your router's web page.
If I use the address of the web server directly at http://192.168.1.200, there's no problem, but I am testing a Web Application that calls to a public server then redirects the browser back to my public IP address (technically a dynamic dns hostname).
If it's a laptop and you might use it on another network and access your website you will want to remove that entry.
The issue is that when I attempt a call to the public IP address from inside the 192.168.x.x network, the request is being answered by the web server on the router (192.168.1.1) so that I can log into it and manage it instead of forwarding me to 192.168.1.200.
One option is to add a entry into your local hosts file for your "dynamic dns hostname".
From the same product page, under the KB/FAQs tab, I found I am unable to access my web server via host name which explains a possible work around: Use the hosts file on your computer to map the external domain name to the LAN IP address.
One other alternative is to use a static route in the router.
You may be able to use the dynamic DNS name, once the other settings are correct.
Also, make sure your router's interface is closed to external requests and the port are set to always forward external requests.
I have set up port forwarding so that calls to http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx (my public IP address) are answered by the web server internally at 192.168.1.200.
Alternatively, some routers (not many) have inbuilt DNS servers where you can specify an address for the internal name.
I assume your using a service like dyndns for that.