Imagine an old accounting system which might still work, but have a rather costy upgrade that can't be justified to get past bookkeeping.
The VAST majority of 32-bit Windows software runs w/o any problem in the "compatibility modes" already provided in every edition of Windows 7.
Or where the developing company has died off, and since it is closed source, no-one can maintain it.
The XP mode is just a normal MS Virtual PC instance running a XP image.
Additionally to legacy application support it can also be used for old hardware without Vista/Win7 drivers (e.g.
On an x86 CPU running in 64-bit mode it is "expensive" (read: slow) to change the mode of the processor to allow 16-bit programs to execute properly.
A technical reason for "XP mode" is to support 16-bit code.
As always, there are poorly written applications whose developers didn't not bother to read docs, but instead just tested on XP.
"XP mode" runs a virtual 32-bit Windows XP instance, and the virtualiation environmnet handles the 16-bit / 64-bit transition.
It's so bad that Microsoft didn't put in any infrastructure into any 64-bit versions of Windows to support 16-bit code.
You need it to make sure applications actually work on your new system.
Well, one could easily blame Microsoft for this because they failed to release a new operating system for so many years that people forgot that any compatibility is needed anyway.
The XP mode is precisely what you said it was - for people who use old applications (or games, as it may be) that for some reason or other cannot be replaced or upgraded.
Unless you've got software that uses either 32-bit kernel-mode drivers (or the aforementioned 16-bit code on 64-bit Windows) you'll very likely never have need for "XP mode".
In effect, "XP mode" is the 16-bit support infrastructure that Microsoft never put into prior versions of 64-bit Windows, with the added bonus of having a full Windows XP 32-bit environment to suppot problem software that doesn't want to run in Windows 7.
If you have a valid XP license there is nothing XP mode has to offer as you could just install Virtual PC make install XP yourself (or linux/unix).