The Zune software will actually check folders I predefine and (really Apple it can't be that hard, although not having used it for quite some time it's entirely possible they do it now) and the whole process has the perfect level of transparency for me.
For photos, I use iMatch to manage hierarchical categories (people, places, etc.)
approach but it doesn't work too well if you want to get at your music from other applications (media extenders, etc.).
I use Tag & Rename to tag everything and manually sort them in folders separated by genre with sub-folders according to artist.
I've been very happy letting the Zune software manage these for me, though I must admit I've not given it very many photos.
For music I prefer my own directory structure, which right now is structured like: "...\O\Orbit, William\William Orbit [2009-06] My Oracle Lives Uptown\".
I do most of my organizing in MediaMonkey, but it doesn't support some of the tags I want to manage so I have to supplement it with extra tagging in iTunes itself.
I get the appeal of the "just tag everything and let iTunes sort it out!"
But back to Tag & Rename for a minute, I'm sure there's plenty of software that duplicate's it's functionality as well or better, but it's what I'm quickest with and it does everything I need.
and write the categories and other metadata back to IPTC tags in the files themselves, which are usually in a year-month-day directory hierarchy.
Letting iTunes copy mp3's I already have seemed quite silly to me so I stopped after about a month.
It searches Amazon for info and grabs the album art at the same time.
Keep hoping they'll fix that someday, 'cause I really do like MediaMonkey, but I also like seeing albums show up in the right order on my iPod.
That's really the most functionality I need, plus it lets me rename the files to my preferred format or [track #]-[song title].mp3 among other things.
It is because I like to have complete control of my tags and locations that I no longer use iTunes and switched to a Zune like 8 months ago.
It copies any new files into [iTunes Music Path]/Artist/Album/01 - Song Name.mpg
For music, an awesome but overlooked option in this space is Helium Music Manager.
I use iTunes' "Keep iTunes Music folder organised" and "Copy files to iTunes Music Folder when adding to libray"
On OS X, I also use iTunes for playing music, on Windows I used Foobar2000 (with iTunes for importing/retagging)