I want something were I can deploy some .jar file and say use 2 or up to 100 instances of that software.
For Java, I am only aware of CloudBees Platform as a Service solutions - never used them, just read about them.
Also you will need to take Security Groups into account.
Your question leaves a lot of space regarding the EC2 part.
Wether it (Amazon in combination with your Management tool) will fire up another 5 servers and put "worker .jars" on them or not is really up to you.
If you have software that runs locally and achieves that the next steps would be:
You will want to have some kind of management (software) that takes care of firing up instances/destroying them again.
Then I access the same ip again and hand out the next job, but the cloud internally pushes the request to some other node.
"Something where you can deploy a .jar file" ist a little vague.
I am interested in running java software that uses normal socket connections, no web stuff or servlets, no REST and all that massive overengineering.
The more I look at offers, the more it looks like virtual OS-images beeing loaded on demand.
Cloud is a buzzword nowdays - it really depends on what the provider is making out of it.
Just having the software that does the actual work is not enough for a cost effective usage of the cloud.
It would be perfect if you have one ip adresse to talk to and say, here i've got a job for you.
But you need to take care that submitting a job will do the right thing (whatever that means to you).
EC2 (or any other cloud platform) is definitely what you want here.
All EC2 gives you is actually an environment where certain types of specifically prepared images can be deployed very fast.
It sound like you're doing RMI and that allocates the ports it uses dynamically so be sure to have a Security Group (broadly speeking: firewall rules) according to your needs.
Boring... Somewhere I read that this is a dead model, very true.
I think EC2 does that, if I understood their concept right.
If intercommunication is needed it can be done over some shared files system cloud.