That depends on the exact details of the installation (configuring the devices, physically installing, power, cabling, etc) and the unique wireless aspects (transmission, interference, coverage, etc) of the installation.
That may not be an issue if your company considers this something that is part of your job -- but then, as you say, you're not qualified (in the traditional, "experienced in it" meaning,) to do this work.
2: They often setup and run with very little knowledge transfer (not all do this I know...)
We got a quote from a local IT company that is more than we are able to pay.
There are about 30 people who normally work in the office, plus more people come in for conferences sometimes and need wifi.
(Simply because you have to figure it out and then do it.)
2: You gain some knowledge that you didn't already have!
So the real question is to balance the hard cost against the risk/gain.
I would suggest showing these comments/responses from everyone here and then discuss the pros/cons of such a deployment by yourself or by an outside vendor.
2: The wireless project will most likely get done in a day or less given the amount of AP's to be installed
3: The wireless network (should be) will be as secure as your wired network
You should be able to figure out everything as you go along.
In terms of cost, they should be able to do the installation in fewer hours than you.
The advantage of these enterprise access points is that they are supposed to work together in such a way that people can move around the office and their connection will seamlessly jump from one to the other.
Unless there's a reason (in your company's opinion) for you to learn the material, I don't see any direct benefit to your doing the work.
2: Security issues with the final deployment could potentially cause Layer 2 breaches out in the parking lot of your building if your not careful
Was wondering if it would be feasible for us to order the equipment ourselves and then for me to come in and install it?
I've done large scale wireless deployments and while that figure that you were provided is completely not out of the ballpark for 2 AP's and labor, you (and your superiors) need to ask if you have the time (which often equates to MONEY) to spend learning how to setup and install these AP's.
1: Longer deployment (which does equal money as you have to spend time away from other tasks)
I remember back when I first learning how to deploy wireless networks, design considerations were much different than traditional ethernet network and I myself had several stumbling blocks along the way.
Have a background in computer software, but do not have any formal training in networking and hardware.
So unless your hourly "value" is much lower, their $1,000 will actually cost your company less.
Often you will find that it is easier to bring someone in to install these systems in less time than yourself, but I would make sure that in the contract that they provide some form of knowledge transfer on how to not only access the wireless network but how to administer it on a basic level.
1: Less money up front (as you don't have to pay a consultant)
However for 30 people in a small office with two Autonomous APs, this is more likely overkill.
A $1,000 cost in support of 30-or-so people is trivial.
On the other hand, if you run into something tricky, you'll be looking at significant time to figure it out.
To do a quick install that will almost certainly work fine for 30 people?