At least, until 5 minutes later when it stops working again.
Have you tried disabling any firewall / Anti Virus software?
Is it possible to try if the same happens when you connect via ethernet cable to your work's network, or maybe can you get a WiFi USB adapter and see if the problem continues?
On my wireless at home, this doesn't happen (i.e., DNS everything works fine forever).
Does the same thing occur if you connect over the wire, with wi-fi disabled?
When it stops resolving, can you ping your listed DNS servers?
If you set OpenDNS or Google DNS at your wireless network connection settings, does it still stops working after 5 minutes?
Turned out it was an incompatibility issue between the wireless adapter, and AP chipset.
If you find you can't get to this then it means you have lost connectivity entirely.
Check here on how to setup OpenDNS on your Windows 7 laptop: link
Internet connection worked for a few minutes, then dropped.
Also verify you can get to any IP address at all, it may well be saying that it's unable to resolve a name but that would actually indicate it loses all internet connectivity.
The admin here took a look at it, but concluded that it's a local problem, and since it's a personal laptop, there's nothing he can do (since I'm not about to let him re-image it :)
Does anyone have any ideas about why it's doing this?
Then suddenly DNS the network works, and I can view the interwebs again.
Once you're unable to resolve names try pinging this address (it should be in the format xx.xx.xx.xx).
Windows 7 SP1 x64/Atheros AR5B97 Wireless Network Adapter
If I add (for example) google's IP to my HOSTS file, then that still doesn't work:
When you say DNS stops working, I presume you mean you don't get any resolutions if you ping a domain name.
PS: I had a similar issue with my laptop (it had an Intel 4965AGN network adapter) when connecting to some Broadcom chipset based APs.
Does ipconfig /flushdns fix the issue rather than /release & /renew
ipconfig /flushdns fixed the issue until a few minutes later.
Do you need to use your work's DNS Servers because of any internal servers you're accessing or is it OK to use 3rd party DNS servers?
If you do an Ipconfig /all you will be given a list of information regarding your wireless adapter including a "default gateway".
It is probably worth trying to manually update the drivers to see if this helps.
Same instructions apply for Google DNS but use IPs 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 instead.
My laptop is running Windows 7, and on our wireless network at work, I get a strange problem where every 5 minutes, DNS the network stops working.