Hamilton C shell solves that with a genuine su and sudo.
You can also download a more advanced version of RunAs from Microsoft, called ShellRunAs, this has enhancements over the built-in RunAs command, both in command line and graphical modes, including letting you save account credentials
One of these is the "Run As..." option (I think it's called "Run As Administrator" from Vista onwards).
Then in whatever Windows/MS shell you have to use, you can use sudo as expected.
Download https://github.com/gerardog/gsudo/releases/
As you've probably discovered, runas will let you run as another user but it cannot do elevation and it doesn't pass current directories, environment variables or long command lines.
If you're doing this on Windows, then in addition to the Run As command as mentioned in a couple of other answers, there are also ways to do this with the mouse.
All the answers explain how to elevate your command in a new console host.
There is a chocolatey package for it with the convenient name sudo.
You can also do both, running elevated as a different user.
su lets you run a command as another user; sudo (actually an alias to su) lets you run a command elevated.
If you hold down the Shift key as you right-click on most executable files in Windows you should notice a few more advanced options.
You can install the package with chocolatey using this command:
Current directories, environment variables and long command lines are passed by way of a shared memory handshake between su running in the caller's context and a copy of itself running as an interlude with the new credentials that then starts the child.
For me this is the only viable replacement to elevate privileges of programs like vim or cygrunsrv while working in a terminal on Windows.
A working sudo replacement for Cygwin's mintty terminal would be to place the following script in user's PATH:
What amused me was that none of those tools behave like *nix sudo, allowing to execute the command inside the current console.