Be warned: like all SSL certificate things, they're a monster freaking scam, and you'll want to steel yourself for the price hike for adding a second related name to a certificate... it's freaking ridiculous.
Will the CA be willing to "lump" all the domains into a single certificate so you can serve the same certificate for multiple domain names?
I also want to secure www.mydomain.com and mail.mydomain.com, which both map to the same server.
You say you have multiple hostnames pointing to the same machine, in order for each subdomain to have a separate SSL certificate - each subdomain needs to be on a separate IP.
When the cert authority makes a CERT they can define multiple domains or subdomains.
Yes, you should be able to buy a "multidomain" certificate that lists both example.com and www.example.com in the subjectAltName.
Sure, I don't see why a CA won't sign one for enough money.
Traditionally, each SSL host required a distinct IP address due to SSL's connection setup sequence, but I hear that Server Name Indication support (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication) can be used in servers like Apache and nginx to provide "virtual hosting for HTTPS" via one IP address.
The hangup will be in your user's browser... older one's like IE6 don't well support SNI.
I think the real question is can you support multiple SSL certificates?
I'd never seen it before, but someone's doing it, so it might be worth looking around.
You can ask the cert authority to reissue the cert with more sub domains, or buy specific ones.
If your SSL provider can't / won't provide you with a multidomain certificate, find another provider.
Oh, one thing: I recently noticed that one of the companies we resell certs from automatically provides certificates for example.com with the www.example.com altname built-in, for no extra cost.
You can view the details of your cert and look under Subject Alternative Name to see if your cert supports multiple names.
You can only use 1 SSL certificate per IP, not hostname.
Seems like at ~$10/year, you could get a single SSL cert for each (sub)domain you wish to support.
The base name and the www name are typically included.
I'm trying to avoid having to buy a wildcard SSL as it costs $200 when all I really need is two subdomains.