This process (read and chase bib) proceeds until you understand everything you've read or until you reach Euclid.
My first practical use of recursion was to work out the total weight of a bunch of containers (portage packs and the various stuff sacks and whatnot inside them.)
Then came to mind Ten Green Bottles, which I think is a nice simple illustration with a clear base case and inputs that keep reducing, ultimately to the base case.
The advisor suggests a research article as a place to start.
A fairly deep example of a recursive process that has some serious issues that might be discussed with students is as follows.
Next, the student looks at the other eight squares and repeats the process in each of them.
I thought of repetitive song lyrics, initially the Song That Never Ends - a good example of infinite recursion.
If the article is by Euclid, read it and you are done.
And here's a Java program I wrote to create that window: Squares.java.
You know that the blue bag holds the green bag and the tent.
This process is actually closer to the truth than you might expect, but it has at least one (maybe two) serious flaw.
Similar problems include the "salary burden" of a VP who has several departments under them, and each department has a department head with teams under them, and so on, but without a strict hierarchy so some departments have no teams, just everyone reporting to the head, and some people report directly to the VP but don't head a department, etc.
Your advisor has given you a topic to explore, but you know little about it in detail.
However, if it isn't by Euclid, then after you read it you will not likely understand everything, so (recursively) read all of the articles in that article's bibliography.
After describing the process to students (even relative beginners), ask for their help in identifying the flaw(s).
I draw a large square on the board and ask a student to picture it like a 3x3 grid (like Tic-Tac-Toe).
If you do this in a program, you get the window below.
Suppose that you are a doctoral student in mathematics beginning your dissertation studies.
However, if you do understand everything already, there is no need to pursue the bibliography.
You could also do revenue within a large company the same way.
This can lead to a deeper understanding of recursion than a simple (flawless) example.
You know that the green bag holds the red bag and the brown bag.