In my opinion, it's worth learning if you do any type of scripting or automation with Windows, even if you're primarily a *nix guy (like myself).
I don't know if this is a mintty problem, or a problem with my system, though.
I think it is the same one that comes with Cygwin.
I am mostly using 'git-bash' which came with the Windows install of Git vcs.
This seems to cause it to run with different privileges, so things like my network drives don't work.
I wish that PuTTY was able to work as an emulator for local OS access like Cygwin does.
are valid ASCII codes, and heavily used on command line interfaces.
It has some Bash-like features that should make it feel somewhat familiar.
A few years later, when Microsoft copied the same shortcuts, PC keyboards didn't have any 'windows', or 'menu' keys, so they went with another little used key you could hold with your pinky: the Ctrl key.
I am specifically looking for a Unix-flavoured shell in Windows so I don't have to use different shells between my home dev (Windows), the live server (Linux) or dev at the office (Mac).
It can be configured to work like you'd like it to:
Just tossing this out since it hasn't been mentioned yet.
If you're using Cygwin and like PuTTY, check out mintty.
You'll be able to do more in less time compared to trying to hack together something that runs atop Cygwin.
My only problem with mintty is that recent versions (0.9.4+) seem to be doing something that Windows 7 UAC doesn't like, so it prompts for permission to run it every time.
The big problem with copy and paste isn't fault of the terminal emulators; it's the keybinding themselves.
[Reposting my comment as an answer at Anentropic's request.]
So, when you press Ctrl-C on a Windows ternimal, should it copy the text or break the running command?
PuTTY is my favorite when I am stuck on a Windows box.
I voted this question up, I would love to know about a better emulator for Windows as well.
The author used large parts of PuTTY to create it, so it behaves very much like PuTTY.
But MS's own PowerShell is actually a really good CLI for Windows.
None of these do copy and paste of text without cumbersome right-clicking.
In contrast, the Terminal app that comes with OS X manages these with aplomb and makes it so much more comfortable to work with.
It's available in the Shells category in the Cygwin setup program (or get the source here).
You can even drag and drop a file on it and it will paste the file path in at your cursor!
When the shortcuts were invented in Mac, Apple added a new key for them: the 'command key' (also known as 'splat')  It doesn't have an ASCII equivalent.