A rather late answer, but there is a sort-of workaround that doesn't involve editing PDFs or using a Word doc:
I just attempted to print to a pdf file in chrome and I did not see the "footer" showing, which would normally show the URL as I (and @amiregetz) wanted
I had this same problem, and I believe I stumbled on a simple solution.
Selecting the Headers and footers would do exactly what you need to achieve - it will show the webpage URL in the footer (as well as some other data in the header and in the footer, as mentioned above).
So far I haven't found any simple workarounds to solve this.
However, when printing a pdf file in Chrome, you only get two options: Fit to page & Two-Sided.
Then I realized it was because the Print margins were too small - the margins were actually covering over the footer!
So I selected custom margins (from the margin drop down menu, which is again found in the "more details" print dialog), increased the lower margin from 0.19" to 0.5" and lo-and-behold the footer with the URL appeared!
will save you an image with a date and time where you can then crop in Microsoft photo editor or similar id you wish to trim down and neaten up.
I printed to pdf and the url now shows as the footer on every page.
I managed to use drop box to do a screen shot and this includes the date and time on my PC.
I opened the "more details" window in the Chrome Print Dialog, and "Headers and Footers" was checked.
The only solution I found so far is to either download the pdf file to your computer (by right clicking the pdf page and clicking "Save as...") and edit it in a PDF manager/editor like Adobe Acrobat, or to edit the pdf file online, copy the URL of the pdf file, add it to the pdf file (where ever you want) and print it.
Using Adobe PDF viewer instead of Chrome's or using the default printer dialog won't help.
So keyboard shortcuts are Ctrl plus " Prt Sc" ( print screen!)
Generally when you print a regular webpage (HTML file), you get some options in the Google Chrome print page dialog:
You can't include headers and footers in the pdf file.