When you need to switch printers just switch the port on the virtual printer.
The first thing to try is to swap the printers, using the same USB port, and see what happens.
i have a box from compucable manufacturing group   .. its called "iperipheral"  .. its a 4 to one mechanical USB switch ..   (part number USB-ABCD) .. www.compucable.com ... i can use this box to select one of 4 printers to one computer or i can use it to connect one printer to up to 4 computers.
This way, the computer will think there is one printer connected, and I can switch it back and forth to either printer, depending on the label type I need.
We could also hook up one printer, and manually swap the labels as needed, but we're trying to avoid that.
Then try adding a third printer manually and choose as the PORT one of the two physical printers.
If the system detects that they're different printers, game over.
We looked at this switchbox 2 PC to 1 USB 2.0 Device AB Switch Box from Amazon, but it lets two computers share the same printer, which is not what we need.
it works fine for printing but they forgot to twist the port cables inside the box so it doesn't work for scanners or other high speed devices unless they are USB 1 ... a little better design and this could be a nice product .. it does work fine for all my printers .. there is also several active USB selector switches available ... they usually have software that selects one or the other output .. some also have a push button switch on the box that overrides the software .. the push button has to be used with scanners ..  printers  can be used either with software select or push button select  ..
I have two USB Zebra label printers, same make and model.
In the days of parallel port printers, these "A/B" style switch boxes were fairly common.
I would like to connect them both to the same computer, via a switch box.
You may have luck plugging both printers in and configuring them normally.
If those printers have a serial number embedded in them (most likely), it doesn't matter what you do, Windows is going to detect that they're 2 different printers.
It's not practical to replace the software at this point.
The label printing software we're using only allows one printer to be set up, that's why we need the switch box.
This Old New Thing Post explains some how Windows identifies USB devices and why it does it the way it does.