Unfortunately, just like the aforementioned tardnoggins at Apple and Microsoft, you have your own misconceptions, namely the idea that you can turn off VM.
I'd recommend to leave the virtual memory settings to their default.
With 4GB of RAM I see that the computer rarely uses anywhere near all of it.
And as shown in Zoran's example it may be hard to identify the problem later on.
They prevented this possibility by making it unremovable, kind of like Microsoft made Internet Explorer unremovable.
At that point virtual memory isn't strictly necessary.
Well, Steve, interesting that you should ask that.
Virtual Memory is still there, but at least you can reduce it from very very very slow to just very very slow by asking it to not involve the disk drive in the insanity.
What you can do is limit the size of the page file, which of course should be set to whatever the minimum is, hopefully 0.
Virtual memory was an insanely incompetent idea created by a bunch of academics who knew zero about practical computing systems, and ANY computer will function vastly better if it can be made to run without VM.
After all, if everybody could just turn off VM, they would, and that would make the bozos who created it look pretty stupid wouldn't it?
We could start talking about those assumptions and misconceptions, but unfortunately, if they were easy to understand and describe we would not have the VM problem in the first place.
I would have thought this was already asked but I can't seem to find it.
The short answer to this question is that the people deciding whether to use VM or not at Microsoft, Apple and IBM were even more stupid and inexperienced than the academics who invented VM and wanted to adopt it based on the same, completely incorrect assumptions that the academics had when they invented it.
At what point do I no longer need virtual memory enabled?
I started examining the minidumps produced and found out that all the BSODs were triggered by a call to a routine called KiPageFault.
I will tell you a little secret: the point at which you needed virtual memory was never.
Took me quite a while to correlate the 2, and I have no actual evidence that the fact that I turned off virtual memory caused the BSODs, but my machines were more stable after I turned it back on...
I have 8GB of RAM and turned virtual memory off thinking I would gain in speed (because of no swapping), but it turns out that made my system less stable (and I did this on 2 machines, similar result).
Of course, you cannot turn it off, that would defeat the whole purpose of screwing you if you could just turn it off.
Yes, if your 4GB are used up somehow and you have no pagefile, applications may start to crash.
I was experiencing one BSOD per week approximately, on both machines.
Since memory is not exactly a sparse resource on desktop PCs / laptops anymore, I doubt that most programs can handle out-of-memory conditions gracefully and will crash instead.
When people do something really stupid, they always make sure it is irreversible.
The article, that Ram refers to, also states, that turning swapping off usually doesn't improve speed and may do the opposite instead:
Now, you might ask, if VM is useless and harmful, why do most big modern operating systems use it?
So I tried setting the virtual memory settings back to their defaults, and the regular BSODs disappeared.