There -is- need to keep these areas clean over time, albeit through different means than standard office space.
Don't let your maintenance personnel in the server room.
Similar to cable management, if you do things right the first time you won't have to bother revisiting what you've done.
Lots of larger enterprise DC's I've had contact with have actually specifically excluded the majority of IT staff - to include senior systems and network engineers, etc.
I have never encountered a scenario where mission-critical server hardware was not under lock and key.
First of all only trusted personnel should be in your server rooms with specific access.
Do maintenance staff generally have access to server rooms?
After reading a similar question on Reddit, I wanted to hear from the serverfault community on the practice of letting maintenance staff in to server rooms without supervision.
Access should always be restricted to qualified IT personnel.
Just by keeping it simple by cleaning up after oneself, and ensuring that everyone is educated with this, the room will be neat and tidy.
If you are on the hook for whatever happens in that room, then you get very stingy with access very quickly.
BTW - Dedicated DC facilities orgs will often have their own specially trained cleaning staff.
The idea is that a very specific set of DC facilities/operations people should be sufficient to physically operate the infrastructure without particular non-facilities domain experts being allowed into a space that they're often not qualified to be in anyhow.
I've generally just chalked this up to the greater need for specialization.
Sweep (don't vacuum) it and keep it clean yourself.
The above answers seem to imply that only janitors would fall into this category but staff electricians, HVAC engineers, etc are often part of the maintenance crew in lots of shops.
It's actually only in the smaller facilities that I've seen sysadmins typically involved in standard rack-and-stack / cabling.
Some network organizations keep their hands in longer, but even they end up splitting off day-to-day cabling (and even a lot of the layout/design) to dedicated facilities people.
We also ensure every entry into the room is logged.
With best practices put into place, you should not need to have janitorial crew go through your server room.