I specify the row number by getting the formula cell's row with =row(), subtracting three since I'm assuming the first two rows are labels and such, and then adding the row number of the first row that has the correct day (entered in A1 and found via the =match() formula).
There are many ways to make this work (you don't need B1, for example, but I thought it made the example clearer).
I'm going to make a few assumptions here, but I think I know what you're getting at.
The two formatting variables don't change how this function works when paired with the =indirect() function.
Finally, I would recommend using dates instead of just an integer.
I hope that this is instructional enough for you to run with it from here.
If row 2 contains labels, then we'll start row three with your pulled data:
Presumably you have one sheet that has a formatted "daily guest list" and another sheet that you're pulling the data from (since 365 worksheets is probably a bit unmanageable).
Without seeing your format, I'll assume that in your master spreadsheet Column A has the day of the year (1 - 365) and Column B has the room number (1 - 24).
The final variable is the sheet name entered as a string.
It'll keep things really clear, and you can even do convenient things like use =today() for today's date.
address() creates a string referring to a cell based on the row number, column number, a couple formatting options, and the sheet name.
In the above examples, you'll have to replace "Sheet1" with whatever sheet name you've chosen for the data.
You could put the sheet name in a cell and reference it if you have to pull from various sheets.
I offset the column by 1, since I figure you don't need the date identifier repeated on this daily guest list.
You can copy that formula across columns and down 24 rows to grab the data from your master list.
I'll further assume that you have this sorted so by Column A so that all of the rooms for the same day are contiguous (this is important for my example, but you can get around it with more complicated logic).
On your daily guest list worksheet, put the day number you want to run it for in a cell (A1 in my example).