I think Chrome developers actually produced a bug there.
BTW: the reason why I looked for Helvetica in the first place was that in another place I found the tip to delete the following font from your system:
Just so that other people too can have an answer - Try installing "European Union Expansion Font Update" from Microsoft.
When I re-enabled those fonts, Chrome promptly switched over to the standard font I had set (Arial Regular) in the settings menu.
Since it was a public access computer, someone had gone in and disabled some fonts that Chrome used as default, one of which was every Arial variate except for Arial Bold Italic.
IMHO it is stupid to use a BOLD ONLY font as the default font for displaying websites.
This solution is what I found at Google Forums and it helped me and I didn't needed to format my PC Hope it helps others too.
It felt right, because it was called "bold" anyways.
I also don't understand why Chrome can't fix that by themselves.
Since I didn't have that font, I just deleted the only Helvetica font on my system.
In my case all I had to do was to go to the fonts folder C:\windows\fonts and delete the only Helvetica font that was in there.
I found that when using a mac, the problem wasn't with Chrome itself, but it was with the Font Book application.
All other tips like re-installing Arial or installing the European font fix didn't help at all in my case.
It was called Helvetica bold and for whatever reason Chrome seemed to feel the need to use that font for displaying regular websites like facebook.
I'd recommend to copy the Helvetica font to a backup directory first, before deleting it.
Once I had that font deleted, chrome rendered all websites like Firefox in a non-bold font.
Or you delete just this font: Helvetica Neue Noir Italique.
Just in case you need Helvetica some time in the future.
I have no clue how that single Helvetica font managed to install itself there, because my Windows 7 installation is only a few weeks old and I am quite picky with what kind of software I install on my computer (I have a dual boot test installation for testing out stuff, so only very few programs actually make it onto my productive installation).