But generally, I don't think the speed difference between the inside and the outside of the disk is going to be a big issue.
I'd be surprised if it made a noticeable difference  for a desktop user given modern drive controllers.
Whether or not this corresponds to how partitioning software visualises the table is another matter.
The ability for a hard disk to read and write data efficiently is by the biggest bottleneck in today's computer system.
And some say that it'll be faster to do so, while others say 'outer tracks' faster.
After that, it probably makes sense to put the swap partition as far toward the outside of the disk as possible; since that's going to be caching RAM, it's probably more important for it to be fast than for the regular file partitions to be fast (although what irrational John says about the swap partition being less important when you have large amounts of RAM is true).
I see that most people tend to make /boot, swap, Windows System partition, etc first.
That is why the solid state disks are becomming so popular as prices fall.
I would want to move my Windows System partition away from beggining of disk to make space for data volumes from which I stream media in real-time software, because real-time streaming performance is more important to me than programs loading faster.
Hard disks are most definitely faster on the outer tracks (use a utility like HD Tune to see for yourself), so I always want my Windows system partition (typically the C: drive) to be the first partition created on the disk.
No matter where you are on the drive, it'll be slower than RAM access and faster than network access.
From the list of partitions you mention it sounds like you're talking about a Linux/Windows dual-boot system, and in that case it's worth mentioning that the Windows installer doesn't seem to work properly if you ask it to install on any but the first partition.
So for that reason, a lot of people who run a dual-boot system install Windows on the first partition.
Their read and write speeds far exceed that of mechanical disks.