You could drop the table and recreate it, with all constraints and indexes, off course.
Since this question is such an important reference I'm posting this code that really helped me understand deleting with loops and also messaging within a loop to track progress.
Hopefully, this would give you the speed you need while also addressing the security concerns that your company may have with adding your account to the db_ddladmin role.
It's basically equivalent to a TRUNCATE TABLE statement - except I'm not allowed to use TRUNCATE.
Assuming that is the case, I'm wondering if having a stored procedure created that uses TRUNCATE TABLE and uses "EXECUTE AS" would be considered a viable alternative to giving security rights necessary to truncate the table directly.
The query is modified from this duplicate question.
Another advantage of using a stored procedure this way is that the stored procedure itself could be locked down so that only specific account(s) are allowed to use it.
I agree with the suggestions to batch your deletes into managable chunks if you aren't able to use TRUNCATE, and I like the drop/create suggestion for it's originality, but I'm curious about the following comment in your question:
The problem is the table is huge - 10 million rows, and it takes over an hour to complete.
I am performing a huge DELETE FROM  with no where clauses.
I'm guessing the reason for this restriction has to do with the security that needs to be granted to directly truncate a table and the fact that it would allow you to truncate tables other than the one you are concerned with.
Except truncate.. only delete in batches can help you.
But this only if you're allowed to do DDL actions, which I see it's not really an option.
A modification of this, if you want to remove a very high percentage of rows...
In Management Studio you have the option to script a table to drop and create, so it should be a trivial option.
If for some reason this is not an acceptable solution and your need to have the data in this table removed is something that needs to be done once a day/hour/etc, I would request that a SQL Agent job was created to truncate the table at a scheduled time each day.