As much as I am annoyed by Windows, it doesn't rot like fruit.
Often when I start up it works pretty well and after some time all kinds of software hog and cloak up the memory.
I've had the same experiences on multiple workstations.
I had this trouble of Windows 7 slowing down over time.
you can run tools like those from Sysinternals to check certain aspects of performance...like what's hammering the registry, what's accessing the drive too much, etc.
It's a good idea to wipe and reinstall just to get rid of drive bloat, fragmentation, and leftover crap the OS doesn't need more than speeding up the computer unless you've got programs installed eating the processor, memory, and there's malware.
Windows doesn't slow down unless there's something going on.
More likely the user is just perceiving a slowdown.
It helps if you don't install any new programs, disable all updates of programs (flash, java, ...) but eventually if you format and reinstall everything it will run faster.
Fragmentation of the Registry and paging files is a big culprit too; PageDefrag, also from SysInternals, is excellent at fixing this.
But I did blow away all of the manufacturer's junk and do a fresh Windows install, and I do exercise care in allowing (or not allowing) programs to add in their own shell extensions, services, auto-loaders and auto-updaters.
More often these random bits of crap take up drive space, contribute to fragmentation, and create stability issues than anything else.
I agree with @Chris.W - too much bloatware; normally the half dozen "updaters" (e.g.
Also adding antivirus and other protection programs adds a layer of slowness.
I finally changed the Virtual Memory setting (default 4gb automatically set by system) to 1Gb as an attempt to squeeze out those virtual memory hoggers.
I used process explorer and the thing that seemed peculiar was the amount of Virtual Memory being consumed.
That's my experience, but I don't have any data to back it up.
A good tool for this is Autoruns, from Sysinternals.
Fragmented disks can cause some slowdown but it usually has to be REALLY bad to have the user use words like WOW!
If you're really curious you should probably benchmark a system then do a wipe/reinstall and re-benchmark it to see if there is a difference.
Acrobat Reader Speed Launcher) that exist on most systems can be disabled without any harm.
The registry is a hierarchical database (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/256986), so performance impacts from a larger registry should be absolutely minimal as navigating to any given registry key is just a sequence of parent to child jumps.
Just using the same system as a typewriter for a year and basic web browsing/email (as long as it isn't infected with something) shouldn't affect the speed.
It's by no means pristine though; it has been subject to quite a bit of "install programs/uninstall programs" abuse over the years, but there has really been no detrimental effect.
I also bought more memory hoping it would help, but the programs seemed to eat all that up, memory always at 98% spent.
In the older NT4 days the rdisk.exe tool could be used to cleanup the internal fragmentation in the registry (separate from the on-disk storage fragmentation), but I can't remember what tool does that now.
Law and behold, it did the job, my Laptop is fast as ever again!
I'm writing this on a 3.5 years since install laptop, and to be brutally honest there is no slowdown.
It's popular to blame slowdowns on crap left in the registry or system folder, but Windows doesn't randomly read those bits any more than you having leftover bills or old papers around the house slows you down.
If your switches are flooded and having trouble that can hurt the machine's network performance.
I think the whole "registry bloat slows your PC down" thing is largely a myth and possibly derived from the Windows 9x days or stoked by unscrupulous vendors selling registry "optimization" tools.
I mean, that's kind of a given, that if you're using a computer with a program that pre-scans all disk access to see if it's nefarious in purpose it's going to slow down performance a bit.