HDMI transmits the raw bitstream on TP over a few metres.
First-come-first-served is how they decide who gets to use the medium.
Digital uncompressed HDTV (1.5 GBit) used to be transmitted directly over coaxial cable for a shorter distance of up to 100 ft, but that would not work on TP cables.
Each network consists of at least 2 stations sharing the same medium (wire).
The "right" to send is acquired by detecting if the line is free (
So an ethernet network card for twisted pair do not use a "tuner" to receive the signal such as the tuner in a TV.
Apart from that, TP cables suffer from crosstalk and that is a limiting factor in high speed communication on the telephone local loop used by ADSL/VDSL2.
They just use CDMA/CD, the CDMA stands for Carrier Sense Multiple Access.
Up to 100 Mbit/s is quite straightforward but Gigabit Ethernet requires more advanced modulation since the TP cable distorts the signal too much if a raw wideband (several 100 MHz) signal is transmitted.
This means that NICs have to acquire the "right" to send.
If the NICs detect a collision, they stop sending data for a random amount of time, and continue sending afterwards.
It is when it is modulated it occupies bandwidth proportial to the modulation rate (symbol rate or baudrate) and the modulation shape/waveform.
First of all you have to know what multiplexing means.
So there is no major restriction on the bandwidth used by the modulation scheme, other than the bandwidth of the cable itself.
It uses a receiver that can "lock" to the baudrate/symbol rate of the transmitter.
If you detect a collision while sending, stop and wait a random amount of time before trying again".
That is why the Ethernet frame consists of a preamble with a repeated pattern that the receiver can use to lock and adjust its receiver clock on (And also estimate and compensate for channel distortion introduced when using long cables).
Multiplexing is transferring different date at the same time over the same wire.
Assuming you're asking about how the Ethernet PHY layer handles multiplexing, here's a simplified answer.
A digital bitstream of ones and zeros generates a wideband signal which is not suitable for use in an environment where each communication channel has to be constrained within a given frequency band.
The frequencies don't disturb each other since their sinus waves don't touch each other.
Because they're sharing a medium, only one station can "communicate" at a time.
Digital communication systems utilises more frequency conservative modulation schemes such as QAM or OFDM/DMT (the later is actually multiple QAM signals in parallell).
To prevent the network from degrading too much due to collisions (more than 1 station sending at the same time), Ethernet uses CSMA/CD (carrier sense multiple access with collision detection) which in laymen's terms means "if no one's using the wire, try to send.
A TV signal does not contain one single frequency, actually a fixed unmodulated carrier occupies 0 Hz bandwidth.
If several network cards share the same medium, such as with coax networks with mutliple stations or TP cables and a hub, then time division multiple access is utilised using various schemes as described by the other answers.
More than 2 stations sharing the wire is pretty common with Ethernet.
Hosts are not sending randomly but rather waiting until the line is free (thus never colliding in the first place)
A packet rolling down the Ethernet cable is represented as a series of voltage changes, each with a corresponding change in current.
Ethernet over twisted pair has no frequency-division multiplexing (FDM) or other frequency shifting modulation in use; each signal has full control of wire, on a single frequency.
Frequency on the network has to do with to the number of cycles per second, and relates more to the speed or bandwidth of the transmission.
Otherwise, devices from different manufacturers could not talk together and adapt their speeds/frequency to a common value if they also had to agree on a common frequency.
The transmission of data is carried out by voltage changes.
The cables used for Ethernet (and other networking protocols) don't implemend multiplexing in that way.
Cable TV uses the same channel multiplexing as aerial broadcasting, e.g each channel is given its own frequency range or bandwidth, which usually is referred to as FDMA.
TV cables are "broadband" cables and implement frequency multiplexing.
When a signal is impressed on a line (when a host sends a packet on the Ethernet), the voltage at the end of the wire must go from 0 to -2.5 volts.
But in a twisted pair network cable, only one transmitter/receiver pair utilises each channel and full duplex is achieved by using one pair in each direction.
This means that collisions are not prevented, they are only detected.