If it does not, check the other requirements for UEFI boot, though if Windows generally boots they should be met.
With a dual boot or other combination, it is likely that another partition/boot manager is at the top.
After I switched the Windows Boot Manager to the top position, hibernation worked again.
Most of these are well documented, but what I found less well documented is the fact that for hibernation to work, Windows Boot Manager needs to be at the top of the boot priority list.
http://www.hasper.info/repair-a-destroyed-windows-7-uefi-boot-sector/
By all accounts, it seems that for UEFI in general, and even more for hibernation on UEFI, Windows needs certain bios/uefi features enabled, in addition to the partition layout.
I really miss this feature as it's a heck of a lot more convenient than restarting.
My Windows 7 OS is installed in the 2TB hard drive.
I turned on hibernate powercfg -h on, change the hiberfil.sys to 100% my RAM (8gb) powercfg -h -size 100.
Hybrid sleep does not work (yes, before I did the bcdedit commands.)
although this might not help the original poster - after quite some frustration and time I figured it out.
Because according to the Windows Vista startup process, the BCD should have an option to resume from hibernation (yes, I do know the difference between sleep and hibernation.)
I am thinking this may have to do with Windows not being able to access the BCD.
to build my Windows 7 EFI system partition (ESP) and the Microsoft Reserved Partition (MSR).
bcdedit does NOT work unless I manually specify the location of the BCD store; which involves mounting the EFI system partition.
I have two problems, which may or may not be connected.
And apparently the windows boot loader should have a path to winresume.efi.
Now I wanted to boot into Windows but the then I saw my Windows 7 boots in legacy BIOS.
I'm also a pretty poor guy, so nothing about reinstalling my W7 installation would be nice.
So I mounted the EFI system partition and used bcdedit to fix my strange Vista loader.
I wanted to try out Elementary OS so I installed it on the 3TB drive in UEFI mode.
So I converted my 2TB drive without nuking my whole drive using gdisk.