This is a bios option for IDE or AHCI driver interfaces.
Making an image of your drive is very important if it contains anything not backed up.
Typically the network driver would be one that requires a specific install, and if possible should be pre-loaded.
If you have the space, then taking a backup is a good idea in case there’s a problem like the hardware is defective and you need to put the old one back in while waiting for a replacement.
(Technically, you can “install” the drivers in advance, by which I mean putting the files on the system so that Windows can find them when it needs to, but that depends on your hardware’s driver installers; some won’t proceed if they don’t detect the hardware, other let you install regardless.)
Lastly, some software might detect the new HW configuration and require you to re-validate it's license.
For your situation, your best bet is to download the drivers, unpack them, and have them ready in a location that will be available to Windows when it tries to install them.
Like I said, you’ll have to install new drivers for the new hardware, so Windows will be in a somewhat different state afterwards.
Otherwise you'll have to download it on another machine and transfer it via USB stick.
Unless you are replacing the motherboard and CPU with identical model numbers, it will require new drivers (and even then, it might still need new drivers due to different revisions, etc.)
When the HD boots up on the new motherboard, windows 7 will detect and load the new drivers.
It can be useful in case you want to put the old hardware in.
No, you shouldn’t have to re-install Windows, but there are a couple of things you will need to be ready for:
You should also research and install the AHCI hard drive driver.
No, you can’t install drivers for different hardware and even if you could, your old hardware would stop working; you need those to remain installed until you shut down.
The make of the components don’t matter, the models do.
This isn’t really your situation, so it’s not of much use here.
There is always a remote chance (Murphy's law) that something might happen in the transfer that would cause the drive to become unbootable on both old and new motherboards (although I think this is unlikely).
If this is the only machine you have available, you should download all drivers from the motherboard support site and have them available on a USB stick.
This means that they cannot be on a drive that requires special drivers for Windows to be able to access them (e.g., RAID); consider putting them on a flash-drive or erasable CD/DVD in that case.
You can “slipstream” drivers into a Windows installation disk, but you have already installed it.
SysPrep is generally for cloning a system like putting the same exact installation onto dozens of identical systems.