Before buying, make sure that the issue is from a weak signal to your mic or there is weak signals to your headphones.
Recently I had to format and reinstall Windows - but that did not fix it for me.
Hi i had this issue with a podcast mic, I've not checked to see if your question was answered, but all I did was make sure windows was up to date (which it wasn't) and two I went into the microphone properties and went to the advanced tab made sure the two options under exclusive mode were "unchecked" three, I made sure the microphone levels were turned up including the boost slider.
I was having this issue and managed to solve it by simply changing where I had my mic plugged into.
If you listen to music from your computer by your headphones without any problem, you may just need a preamp for the microphone.
This may not be the issue you are having, but it is definitely worth testing.
At first I had my mic plugged into my front panel audio which is plugged into my sound card.
you can find plenty of mic preamps in the musical instruments stores or online with reasonable prices.
When I plugged my mic into the sound card directly the volume was much better.
I've been using the C01U for over five years on a Windows 7 laptop and struggled with the low volume problem.
I originally got a powered external USB hub which solved my Samson C01U "low volume" problem for a few years.
I just installed two pieces of software (Equalizer APO and the Peace GUI), and it solved my low volume problem!
In some cases like your issue, the analogue microphones needs to be amplified by a microphone preamplifier as some computer's mic inputs does not give enough voltage to the microphone.
Then something changed, and I suddenly lost the volume.
Microphone preamplifiers are small devices to which you connect your mic and then you connect it to mic input of your PC or Laptop.
Had to go to mic - > advanced settings and choose "separate all input units as separate units", i.e set line in, microphone handled as separate units.
https://sourceforge.net/projects/peace-equalizer-apo-extension/