For me the perfect balance was a 13" model with a high-res screen - a bit on the heavy side at 1.8 kg, but a spacious fast keyboard, and lasts 3.5-5 hours with careful use of backlight.
I know people who can't code on anything other than a dual screen / external keyboard setup, and one who does actually code a little on a netbook (but only so he doesn't need to take anything bigger along).
Any thoughs on an external monitor, keyboard and mouse?
I actually never code much at school, making bug fixes at most.
Not posting the exact model because it's not in this price range, but there are plenty of 13" out there that should be OK.
If you often need to have full IDE in class, 12" is too small.
It's perfectly capable for web development and serious Java coding, including running up my application engine and GUI interface.
It is highly dependent on your tolerance to crampedness and exactly how much portability you want.
I have been using an Acer Aspire 4720Z for hobby/evening programming.
But I find the keyboard too cramped and a little frustrating - I use a split type keyboard in my office and for work.
I've been using Thinkpad X61 for some time now (12", ~1.5kg, ~6h on batteries, 4GB of RAM).
It's only a couple of pounds and would have been perfect for school (if only it had been available then).
Compile times are decent, though not as good as a faster dual-core with more RAM, of course.
My default configuration is a large LCD (24", 1080p) and a wireless mouse and erogo keyboard.
I've been using an ASUS 1000HE to program for about a year or so now (I use it at home or on the road; I use a desktop at work).
For general programming with IDEs I just use an external monitor (and external keyboard/mouse) with docking station.
For programming, this is ideal since I can have a large IDE with all the debug windows, a keyboard with extensible macros and a mouse that I can actually controll.
I have to close/minimize almost all "dockable" windows to get a good view of the source, but that helps me focus more on the code.
When I'm on the road, I can still program, but usually end up in one-note or word/excel anyway, so the small screen doesn't affect me as much.
But the internal screen is enough for me to code in non-IDE environments or at school.
It also had a real virtual RAM thrashing problem until I put in 2GB of RAM.
I use VS2008, Expression Blend (although that is a bit slow), FlexBuilder/FlashBuilder, and Photoshop.
Yes, it's a 10" screen with a 92%-sized keyboard, with a N280 Atom and 1 GB RAM, but it's been perfectly adequate for what I need.