Are the Wired/Wireless connections on the SAME device (are you hooking up your laptop to the wireless router?)
Normally, windows gives you "connected" but "limited Access", after it has successfully associated (connected wirelessly) to the acual router/access point, but cannot reach "Da Intarwebz" (I hate how windows errors - they're soooo fuzzy and meaningless)
Ensure you have the driver downloaded in the event that Microsoft Update may not have the driver.
connect with the cable, do the same thing for that network adaptor too)
Is anything else connecting to your WIFI (Phones, Tablets, other laptops...) Are you sure it's your Laptop and not your wifi router/access point?
(locate your Wireless adaptor entry, note the information.
This means that WEP/WPA/WPA2/EAP/802.1x has gone through and the Wifi router has let you in, but for some unknown reason Windows cannot get out.
If it does we can establish that this is a Windows issue and not a hardware/router issue.
If that's the case, you can check with "ipconfig /all" if you received any DHCP information on your Wireless.
If there is a difference, it could be that the WIFI config has a different DHCP config (different parameters or is simply disabled on WIFI)
They normally should match what you get from your LAN connection (different network adaptor, but the IP should be in the same range and the rest of the config should match pretty much).
It might be that you're not given an IP address or default gateway (or DNS entries)
Make sure it has all the IP information - including Default Gateway and DNS.
An alternative solution to determine if it is the WiFi adapter or your WiFi access point is to download something like Ubuntu.
You can logon with another user's profile and check.
It might be, as other mentioned above, a problem in windows itself, but as I'm not an expert in that particular OS, I'll give you pointers on the WIFI/routing part:
*** If after reboot this does not work go back through the steps again and check "Delete the driver software for this device" and click Ok on the Confirm Device uninstall.
Make sure it's getting an IP automatically (or has the right static IP if applicable).
Boot from the thumb drive and verify that wireless works through it.
You may have to point to the location of the driver on re-installation.
if your system is in domain and having domain authentication then it could be profile issue.
It is small and can be installed on a thumb drive.