On Mac, you use Managed Preferences, which I'm not quite certain how to do.
I turned on YouTube's safety mode and set it to "Lock this Browser".
You can also use a proxy, and force Chrome to browse through that proxy; the proxy can be made to add the Safety Mode cookie.
You'll have to sign out of your profile before letting supervised users use the computer, or else they can switch to an unrestricted profile.
On Windows, you download an administrative template for Group Policy, which gives you an option to force SafeSearch (which also forces Safety Mode).
The way YouTube safety mode works is via a browser cookie attached to the HTTP request.
Despite the text I found on Google's support site, the lock does not seem to work:
This is somewhat more fragile than using Group Policy, because unlike with Group Policy, you aren't using the OS's user system (which is designed to keep users from accessing other users' stuff).
There are two basic ways to force it: you can force Chrome to send it via Group Policy/other management systems, or you can add it directly via a proxy (note: using a proxy also likely will require using policy management, to keep users from changing proxy settings).
I have been able to defeat safety mode simply by clicking "Clear all browsing data..." and selecting all options, and then restarting the browser.
Of course, this is useless if the other users use an account with the necessary administrative privileges to modify Group Policy, but if they do you can't really restrict them anyway.
To set up policies for Chrome, check out this Google site.
Another way is to use a supervised user, which is Chrome's built-in parental controls system.
You'll probably also have to disable guest browsing for Chrome, again to stop them from accessing an unsupervised account.
Supervised users are managed from your Google account, can't install extensions, and can have SafeSearch forced (among other things).
This can be enabled on a user-by-user basis, or for everyone on the computer.
To do that, add a new profile to Chrome, and check the box saying "manage with my account."