However if you are seriously considering setting up a home studio you will want to consider your purchases carefully allowing for future expansion.
For instance most sound cards or USB interfaces have onboard preamps and you can even get USB microphones which have both a preamp and an interface built into them.
I recommend micing your guitars and drums, so you should have a sound board that can mix mic levels individually before inputing into the computer.
For good boards you can look at eurorack, mackie and alesis.
The PC you have should be adequate, though if you're wanting to use lots of effects then you may need something more powerful.
Otherwise, I'd say go for what your budget will allow, but a sequencer is a good investment if you're wanting to make music.
There are a few things you need to be able to record something onto your computer.
If you know what you are doing you can produce very decent sounding stuff using very little means.
Regardless of what hard-/ software you end up using, I guarantee it will improve your recordings!
Another option is to plug your mics into an outboard mixer, do your mixing on there and then record the stereo output of the mixer into your sound card.
There is a plethora of information available online, countless free tutorials and many forums where professionals and experienced hobbyists share tips and tricks.
To do what you want properly, you probably want a decent soundcard that supports multi channel, plus some good quality microphones set up to catch the sound from the voices and instruments.
Options include Cubase, Pro Tools, Logic, Reaper, Record.
If you want to spend the money, mackie and alesis have boards that have firewire connections that will put each input as a single track into a recording app on your computer so you don't even need to do a lot of pre-mixing before you record - http://www.alesis.com/multimix8firewire.
If you are on a budget I would recommend the latter.
You can always do some post-mixing as well (so a board that has a lot of pre-amp mic inputs is best).
Don't use the one built in to your motherboard as the quality is usually pretty bad.
If you want to be able to record several things at the same time but still have them all be individual recordings you will need an interface with multiple inputs (note, not all "multi-channel" sound cards have multiple inputs, some only have 1 stereo in an multiple outs for surround).
If that is the case I would suggest you do a little more research before you buy anything.
It's really just an audio file editor and just doesn't cut it as a sequencer.
However the main thing you should consider is how elaborate you want to get and how much money you want to spend.
But again, this will not give you as many mixing and editing possibilities as when you record all the instruments to individual tracks.
The best budget option is to go for a USB or PCI soundcard (if you have a laptop then USB will work well, and be easy to transfer to a new machine in the future).
All of these things come in many shapes and sizes and with price tags ranging from $20 to thousands of dollars.
However using a USB mic only allows you to record one track at a time so you will need to record all your instruments separately.
Or you can just put the mic in the room while everyone plays their instrument at the same time but then you will not be able to edit or mix the individual instruments.
Yes, though it's likely your soundcard supports only one channel in.
I would recommend Audacity, it is really good for audio production.
Many of these products also combine functionalities.
I would avoid Creative soundcards, they're pretty terrible for audio (I work on audio applications and I've had the displeasure of owning them in the past.
There are a number of other options from M-audio, Roland, Terratec and others.
The key thing is getting one that supports ASIO (almost all 'proper' soundcards intended for music will do this).
Lots of soundcards do come bundled with a sequencer of some description, so see what the options are there.
These are the best sound cards on the market for recording audio on a PC http://us.creative.com/products/welcomenew.asp?category=237 They will come with far better applications than Audacity (audacity is good, but as far as mixing full songs with multiple inputs, it can be difficult for the novice).
You would probably also need more than one microphone and obviously more cables.
Do a few searches and spend some time reading up on recording and mixing techniques.
Blue microphones and Samson both make several affordable and decent quality USB microphones.
If you have a proper input signal, all you would need is the software.
Unless you are wanting to spend absolutely no money at all then I would avoid Audacity.
Whilst using professional equipment clearly has its advantages; the most important ingredient in a "good quality" recording is the person doing the recording and their ears.
Combine these with a free software package like Audacity (or Samson also offers some of their mics bundled with a basic version of Cakewalk Sonar) and you have everything you need to do some basic recording and mixing.
Spend more if you want to record all members of the band at once.
If you literally want to record a single song just for the fun of it, I imagine you do not want to set up a full blown recording rig in your living room.
There's a reason people set up studios, and there's a lot of reasons studio time ain't cheap.