You've already explored the options with VBA, but you've probably found that there are way too many ways to paste something into a cell to intercept them all with VBA.
I am aware that "Paste Special" will paste only values, but I am giving this spreadsheet to users to fill in and return, and I'm not confident that they'll understand or remember to "Paste Special" every time, resulting in us trying to use invalid data.
You will have to record the macro for paste special to see the excel code.
You still need VBA for it, but you can basically find out if the user pasted.
Next, you will want to evaluate if whatever the user has pasted into the cell is correct, and if not, either fix it in the macro, or simply clear it.
You can use activecell to get which cell the user has pasted into, and execute the setup routine for data protection on that cell to fix it again.
I've tried "Protect Workbook" but I can't find any option that will allow editing of values in locked cells while preserving everything else.
see also https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12525942/how-to-detect-paste-event-in-excel
How can I lock the sheet or write some VBA to lock everything about a cell except its value?
Now, create a macro that runs when a cell changes.
I need a solution that will work in as many older versions as possible.
Once the macro recording is active, setup data protection for one cell, and stop the recording.
There are several discussions on the web about handling this scenario, but none of them have so far delivered a solution that actually works.
I've also tried about five different methods of writing some VBA to do this but so far none of them work, mostly due to not being able to save the old properties before the new values are applied.
I'm trying to add data validation to a worksheet, but when I paste a value, the data validation is removed, as well as the conditional formatting.
If a cell is not protected, then anything can be pasted into it.
This will give you the VBA code for setting up data protection the way your cell needs to be.
If so, undo the paste, then paste special instead.
An msgbox can be used to notify the user what they did wrong.
Of course, if you instruct your users on what is allowed, the chance of errors will reduce, but I have worked in a large office environment and I know how powerful a good macro is against silly mistakes.