"MAM-A recommends that to improve data integrity and compatibility, burn your disks more slowly.
Most of the work is in the research to find out what brands are good lately.
Firstly are we talking about production CD / DVD's or recordable?
Carrying one on top of the other can destroy one or both, even if they're pretty securely fashioned.
If you did, then you should reburn onto a write once format for longer term storage.
We store in binders with plastic sleeves - we find these simple to store large volumes, and are easy to keep organized.
My recommendation is to burn CDs at 16x speed and DVD's at 2x speed."
If you burned the discs yourself - then make sure you don't use RW formats.
Paper or paper towels can cause catastrophic scratches.
Thanks for creating the worst-case scratch on a random set of discs in a spindle!
If you can pay a bit extra (or be patient and buy online) and buy good discs, it's worth it.
Generally this only affects writable CD's / DVD's.
In my humble opinion i have always found TDK CD's/DVD's to be the best.
Another problem I've had is circumferential scratches from leaving a spindle of disks where people are tempted to absent-mindedly spin them.
When using a CD / DVD ensure the disc has fully stopped spinning before removing.
I have had some players where i have heard the disc spinning when its been dumped back on the trolley when ejecting.
RW dye 'fades' over time - and in my opinion should never be used.
Or carrying spindles by sealing them up so there is no chance for the discs to move about.
Once I realized this, I went back to putting individual discs in individual jewel cases.
this is because each segment has error correcting code included in it.
Secondly there is such a thing as Disc Rot which can be caused by oxidisation in the air and aggravated by scratches so try not to scratch the discs.
Although getting a bit outdated in reference of the hardware mentioned, the general idea is still the same.
Expect them to be readable long after any self burned media has become unusable.
If its recordable then the first thing i would say is that you get what you pay for.
Always pick up by the edges and dont place on any surface other than the disc holder or disc drive tray.
My dog once ate its way through 10 cd's each with 10 mp3 albums on them!
Commercially pressed dvd's are much less fragile - scratches can be buffed out, as the data is pressed into the media in a totally different way than recordable media.
Discs are designed to withstand some scratching as long as not too much data is destroyed.
When cleaning a disc always use a lint-free cloth and ensure you wipe from the center straight out to the edge and not in a circular fashion.
Destroy to many segments in a row and it can not reproduce the original data.
Keep them in a dry place and away form direct sunlight (though if in a case should be ok) and away from excessive heat which could warm them.
I have seen dvd players that cause lots of scratching - so if you are finding scratched discs you might want to take a look at your players - they are usually cheap to replace.
Also, the consequences of a blank DVD-R getting scratched are much more severe than an already written one.
Otherwise Jewel cases are generally accepted as the best method as its harder for the discs to get squashed or scratched during movement.