I anyway seem to not have good ideas for examples to link these tools to actual interesting problems.
I have some examples that use functions to represent "subtasks" and repetitions to generate nice drawings.
I agree with Buffy's fine answer if your imagination is running towards feedback systems.
In Karel the Robot and its successors (Karel J Robot, Monty Karel, ...) there are a number of things that a robot can sense such as walls and "beepers".
If it, for example, could sense edge walls, then it could use that sense for conditional constructs.
First, having students simply create drawings is already a plus.
Have them draw a face and then draw over it to change its expression.
In terms of the ubiquitous turtle, however, there are still a few interesting things you could do off the top of my head.
If you can have multiple turtles then one turtle sensing something about another is another possibility for feedback.
What your system is missing, actually, seems to be a feedback mechanism in which the turtle can "sense" something about the world it is in.
I'm anyway a bit stuck here, say at the visual artist stage, I'd like to show them the use of a while kind of loop instead of a statically limited for, but I don't have good ideas besides using the "while" condition to stop some recursion based for example on the next step length (imagine drawing a spiral with increasing step length and wanting to halt at some point).
It seems to me that my main difficulty has to do with the absence of interesting states from the examples, the only one that comes to mind being precisely the use of a step length.
But, until you get something like that (sensing about the world) you can probably only write conditional and looping constructs based on stored information in the program itself, such as counters.
The main goal is letting them have a strong visual feedback and appreciate the decomposition of complex movements.
It features drawing movement, non-drawing movement and pen color change.
I'm going to teach using the well known drawing turtle, with one developed by me to fit my students, so in case it can also be modified.