Copy your work and paste it three times into same Word document and then print
So I gave up on trying to use the "Label" option or any other "cut and paste" suggestion.
You can also set the number of pages per sheet in here.
https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/office/forum/office_2007-word/printing-four-copies-on-one-page/4ed332b0-ae90-4c74-9075-0a7c4f8c631e?auth=1
I understand that you have created your outline so that if you just printed it out one time, it would fill your selected sheet (A4).
  -- Under "copies and pages" (the option that first comes up)
Now, the Printer Properties paper size defaults to you document page size.
Change it to A4, or whatever actual paper size you are using and select OK.
  -- Selecting the "Multiple Pages" button under "Print Preview"
This will scale down your document so that 4 print on each page.
Also be aware that you have two sets of print settings and these often function independently.
(A4 or 8.5x11) Choose portrait or landscape in "Page Setup".
When you want to print the same content multiple times on the same sheet of paper:
Note that this will only apply until you load the Printer Settings again, then it will default again.
Unfortunately you can't simply print a single page 4 times on a sheet.
  -- Choosing "Media and Quality" to select the tray in your printer
It is kind of useful to do it this way since you can printout a "scaled up" version of your page to see errors.
From here you need to configure the page to use "labels" the size of which you need.
      o Set Page Range to the number of copies per page 4 == (1,1,1,1)
Word will now scale your original A4 (8.5x11) artwork/layout so that 4 print on a single sheet.
Format your artwork/page to fill the entire page (sheet).
Here you set the number of pages to be printed on a sheet.
For Word to be able to print 4 pages to a sheet, it needs to have 4 pages.
From within the Labels tab click the Options button.
      o If you want 4 copies and you are going to have 4/page then 1 copy
My advice (which means "worked for me" [finally]) is to choose a paper size that your printer easily deals with.
While none of these suggestions are "wrong", they assume facts not necessarily in evidence.
Just go to print, and below printer and presets go to copies and pages and change it to layout..then you can choose how many per page.
You need to go to the "Layout" dialogue after selecting "Print" and put in the number of "Pages per sheet".
Things that don't seem to work (probably because they aren't related to what you are trying to accomplish):
(This is hardly obvious so remember this command!)
FWIW: I have found that when creating wine labels, (art work) MS Word will rarely keep the same relationship between text boxes and art as one tries to format the page correctly.
You can create new custom sized labels, which is what you probably need to do - if you do, make sure you set the page size to A4 landscape.
Leave this as 1 or you are also likely to get a border around the whole lot if your single pages have a border.
Although you can select text boxes and art (not by using "Select All", but by Shift-Click on each segment of your art) when you try to paste it back into your document or into a new document, the formatting and/or even portions of the art work will be lost.
(This same problem happens when trying to print to a PDF reader.)
I think this answer on the MS site best answers your question.
Tools -> Letters and Mailings -> Letters and Envelopes
Then you simply place your work in each of the four labels on the page.
(this is the answer "bribri" gave)  You still need to set the "Page Range" (1,1,1,1) in the "Copies and Pages" dialog (under "Print) as you stated.