At this point the only apps showing as installed were the Apple supplied apps, cydia and blackra1n.
Then I ssh'd into the phone (username = root, password = alpine).
The important trick here was deleting the com.apple.mobile.installation.plist file, because then iTunes doesn't know that there were any apps installed and so doesn't start deleting the data/settings when it syncs.
I resolved this problem by unclicking the "Prevent iPods and iPhones from syncing automatically" checkbox in the Devices section of iTunes' preferences.
I cd'd into /private/var/mobile/library/safeharbor and took a copy of the directory listing, so I had a note of which apps I had installed.
I have checked that syncing of apps works and am just keeping my fingers crossed that it stays that way.
Well, it looks like I might finally have fixed it without losing all my settings/data.
But I warn you, it isn't pretty and it involved temporarily jailbreaking my phone.
In my case, I selected "Transfer Purchases from iPod" and iTunes would begin to transfer them and then - nothing.
I have started reinstalling my apps and they are properly picking up their data and settings that are still there in the safeharbor directory.
First I jailbroke my phone, I used the blackra1n app, but any jailbreaking technique would work equally well.
I would recommend uninstalling iTunes with Revo Uninstaller first to remove all related files.
Ultimately, they re-authorized the downloads of the missing tracks and I grabbed them on iTunes.
If you don't want to try that, you could try removing your old iphone software on your computer and redownloading the 3.1.2 software first.
They were extremely helpful and resolved the problem for me in 30 minutes of troubleshooting.
I then deleted the file /var/mobile/Library/Caches/com.apple.mobile.installation.plist, this is the file that keeps details of which apps are install.
I checked it to avoid auto-syncing confusion with friends iPods, etc.)
So now I have a clean phone with no apps installed, but importantly I still have the settings and data for the apps I had installed.
Then I used cydia to install the OpenSSH package (again any jailbrake package installed would do).
I then restored to the current firmware and let iTunes restore the backup I had just made.
This directory is where all the data for the apps is stored.
Then reinstall itunes and download the 3.1.2 software (you shouldn't have to pay since it's already associated with your AppleId.
The same happened when I right clicked the iPhone and selected the same Transfer... option.
If that doesn't work, I would go all out and use Revo Uninstaller to remove all of your corrupt files.
Because you've done restores already, it seems like the 3.1.2 software you have on your computer or your itunes software or both are missing files or contain corrupted files.