For all we know, as you described the process is present; because you are able to use its tasks.
Can I or anyone tell what went wrong without such details; no, we can't, you'll need to inspect how things work in order to know why it is broken the way it is.
So, the executable is launched; now Google Chrome starts to load all its libraries, all its settings, all data, your user profile and some more.
You've clicked; so, the driver catches processes this and together with the kernel and window manager it produces a mouse event which is then processed.
So, nothing really goes wrong here, if you can see the process; if it did, you would see this by either a warning or an entry in the event logs.
Now, you don't get the expected result; what happens at ... in "Click --> ... --> Browser pops up"?
Sometimes you can't fix something that is horribly broke; you need to start over then, that means by trying to replace things from the bottom up from easy to hard:
That's really a mouthful; so yeah, a lot can go wrong here.
Right click the desktop shortcut and pin to taskbar.
I experienced similar problem where I was able to get my chrome back working by restoring my system using an automatic restore point, where it was working fine.
Everything will be perfectly fine (including opening URLS in other applications that you want to send to Chrome)... except I have to do this process every restart.
Look at the state of the multiple processes, look at their threads; which functions are they stuck at?
This is always false, by design; if you make a mouse click, lines of code get executed.
If you do not want to see desktop shortcut, right-click, choose properties, then select the general tab,  click the "hidden" checkbox and it will not appear on desktop.
BTW I tried reinstalling Chrome clean several times with Admin rights and it didn't fix.
Up to you whether you want to troubleshoot and fix it or nuke it and start from scratch.
We can be certain that this part of the executed code works.
You can try this for how to restore system and here are some faqs.
Normally system restore takes 5-10 minutes and the programs that installed after restore point will get uninstalled.
You can see this being processed, as the icon lights up at the bottom; the task bar informs there that it has received its mouse event.
The taskbar shortcut should open browser window when clicked.
So, it is either stuck on something or something failed; but what.
It shouldn't be marked as run as administrator in my case.
Does it result in ACCESS DENIED trying to access some file?
Well, if everything goes right; it could be that locating goes wrong, but then you would get a warning and it could also be that the properties or launching goes wrong, but then you get a warning as well.
Delete the Chrome and ChromeHTML folders in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Classes\
If you can't see it from the current state as is, you'll need to look at a trace instead; does it write to some log file?
As it is described in this thread, this was fixed for me by deleting the current user and manually removing:
Hopefully someone finds the true source of this error.
I found the simplest solution is to make sure you have the shortcut on the desktop.
The icon on the task bar has a location specified in its properties; the executable there is found, properties are checked and then finally it is launched.