Don't forget to change the Username and Password to gain access to the router under the 'Administration" tab.
There was a piece of paper taped on the router with a link to an owner's manual; however, the link didn't seem to get me any helpful information regarding setup or anything.
It appears to be an older model and the only things it came with were a power supply and Ethernet cable (no manuals or any such).
Release the button, and then unplug the router from the wall for another 30 seconds.
This is usually written on the contract that you signed when you ordered the service.
To reset a Linksys router, hold the "Reset" button for 30 seconds; the Power button should blink as you do this.
I have connected this thing to my modem and attempted to run it a few times, my iPod typically recognizes it, but it doesn't work from there (it doesn't require a password, marks that I have connected but I can't access the internet).
There are a lot of settings that could be leftovers on this thing that would keep it from working.
Regardless, a factory reset and re-setting up the wireless network should fix it.
Once reset, you need to reconfigure the WAN settings.
I recently purchased a LinkSys router from a local resale shop.
I will have additional router details soon, I do not have access to it at this time.
Once you have reset it, you'll need to log in to the router and do some basic configuration for the wireless network.
http://www.linksys.com/us/support-article?articleNum=139791
You probably need to reset the router to factory settings:
Connect your computer via Ethernet and log in to the Linksys router using the default settings.
Log into the router by going to 192.168.1.1, and use "admin" as the password.
So, my question is this... What do I need to do to set this device up?
If you're using PPPoE, which most people do, you will need the username and password from your service provider.
I own two other routers - I've had this same issue with one of those - and the one (which I didn't set up either) works flawlessly.