Once you are connected you can use Putty to create 2 proxy/tunnels on port 20 and 21.
And you always have the option to report to your local authorities (it is a crime to gain access to networks and computers which you have no right or privilege to access)
Your FTP password's getting sniffed, it happens with our sites hosted there a great deal.
You might want to read Detail Post-Mortem of a WordPress Hack.
If GoDaddy is unwilling to do that, then to me that seems like they are an irresponsible hoster who won't take steps to protect your data and you should switch.
GoDaddy gives you SSH access and you could connect to your account using Putty.exe  on port 22.
Good luck defending yourself, and hope this helps some.
I suspect a prank here, or at least a targeted attack.
From your description, it sounds like someone has found an exploite of WordPress is using it to their full advantage.
Another post that gives a lot of information about a WordPress blog hack with links.
Report the publisher ID here, Google is EXTREMELY serious when it comes to fraudlent activity within their adsense network.
WordPress itself has an FAQ about what to do after your blog has been hacked.
Only 1 IPv4 address should resolve to localhost (assuming of course we are just talking about the standard IP addresses) and that is 127.0.0.1.
WordPress is a heavily targeted application just because of it's popularity.
blackberryrss.com is located in the US so you have some leverage you can take:
Fighting hackers of thoses sites is a full time job.
The first link I pointed you to goes into a very detailed description of this and what steps they took to counter it.
Silly question, but - have you tried changing password and using another computer whatsoever?
In the end, you might have to think about changing from WordPress to another blogging application.
To dig even deeper into the rabbit hole it seems like bluehost is hosting their server, so give them a ring and see what they want to do (if anything).
In fact to be honest GoDaddy shouldn't even be letting it in because the reverse DNS of that IP is "localhost" which is a HUGE red flag.
You sound like you're doing everything right so far, but I'm thinking that the attacker is dropping a file into your site and the attack from that direction.
Or, better yet, you can just do that same thing much simpler using the PSFTP.exe  command  or you can connect to port 22 with FileZilla client.
Then you can use ftp through the secured tunnel to get to your files.
To be honest I would ask the ISP to block that IP at the firewall level.