If you need a book, get a "how to administrate on Linux".
That sounded a bit harsh, but try taking your own temperature on the subject.
Anything with great online  documentation will pull you through.
There are a few exceptions of course, Lindows comes to mind (is it even around any more?
for me that is debian and if i need to run some redhat compatible software i choose centos.
Although, if you want to really get into the nitty gritty aspects of linux, I'd take a look at Slackware" it's at least traditionally known as one of the least user-friendly flavours.
Obviously only run what services you need, but a proper firewall will keep out the trash.
In my humble opinion the "best" is whatever you are familiar with.
In reality there isn't tremendous differences, between distros, in the applications you are going to be running on the OS (Apache, LigHTTPD, MySQL, PostgreSQL, etc.).
I've found this helpful in some cases, as it can foster a steep learning curve.
As far as security goes, you will always be safer on a Linux system with minimal, well patched services.
I initially made the wrong decision with getting a "how to " book on Linux.
Professionals will always have a way into your system, but that shouldn't stop you from being alert, and vigilant with log checks.
If this is a mission-critical system, you  may consider a pay-for Linux host for a while until you are very comfortable with configuring, controlling, and updating a Linux console.
If this is more of a self learning situation, any of the larger systems (Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu, Slackware) would be fine.
If you feel you are "up to the task" of hosting and managing a web server, you should have already acquired the know how to pick a proper Linux distribution.
;) In my opinion I found that useing an "enterprise" linux pays of.
I would say ubuntu server is the easiest to set up, and is based on debian.
I have always learned more from on-line documentation, since there's always someone to help you understand the material, and you can bookmark that information for later.
I assume you have Linux experience if you are putting together a web server.