3)You typically wont have to build a new image for the same model over the lifetime of the model, even if different components are used between later and earlier versions the different components will often be driver compatable
The reason they're more expensive is because most intelligent businessmen will not put up with the crap that gets put in stores like Best-Buy, because the ROI is just that terrible.
Buy your laptops and machines from someone like Dell and chances are you can run a standard build, improving support, security and downtime as if something goes wrong software-wise you can rebuild the machine in an hour or so, not a day.
We've never bought consumer HPs, but when were buying Dells and went with the cheaper Inspirons, the hardware specs would change every month, which makes imaging a hassle.
A laptop you buy at Best Buy or another store for home use is made to be used continuously for at most 2-3 hours, and on occasion, not everyday for 6-9 hours.
The keyboards are manufactured in a more durable way, the way the laptop dissapates heat is more reliable, and ensures that it lasts longer.
In addition to the specific reasons, I find that drawing an analogy to a different business unit helps to put these scary technology concepts into a comfortable framework.
The materials that a home-use laptop is made out of show its purpose is for home use, as they are made out of plastic, and cheap metal.
IT pays more money for a laptop than Joe User at Best Buy because your IT department has different/bigger priorities (which the other answers have enumerated quite well).
Remember to remind them that there is much more to a laptop than CPU, Memory and Hard Drive, such as the choice in motherboards, chipsets, and manufacturing processes.
Also, the warranty on a business class laptop is much better.
A lot of the time with a consumer model, this is not the case, so if your laptop goes tits up and there are no spares but you still have warranty you may end up with different components or even a different but "equivalent" laptop as a replacement.
4)The manufacturer keeps spares for the projected life of the model.
A laptop made for business use, contains durable plastic, and sometimes plastic/metal compounds to increase it's ruggedness.
More stable hardware - we buy mostly HPs, and for any model, they keep the specs stable for about a year.
It may also help to assure them that if you could meet business need by buying $500 laptops for everyone, you would be thrilled to do so, but it would just be too expensive in the long run.
That is, the memory, hard drive, and other important system components are accessible to your technical support department should you need an upgrade.