However, what I want is SSH from any machine(home laptop, office machine and mobile) to instances in private subnet.
2) Using proxy commands, configure your ssh config file, to have something like this
2) launch a separate instance (bastion) in a public subnet in your VPC
I've also included the below in case you wanted extra details about bastion hosts:
Can anyone list what I need to setup to make this possible.
The private subnet does not have direct access to external network.
I have created a VPC in aws with a public subnet and a private subnet.
Just to clarify: once you've ssh'd into your bastion host, you need to ssh into the NAT host as user ec2-user.
The "destination" does not have a public IP, only a subnet ip, for example 10.0.0.1
If you create a new instance, as an overview, you will:
You can choose to launch a new instance that will function as a bastion host, or use your existing NAT instance as a bastion.
I have done some research that I can setup the NAT box to forward SSH to instance in private subnet.
So, there is a NAT server in public subnet which forward all outbound traffic from private subnet to outer network.
4) update the security groups of each of your instances that don't have a public IP to allow SSH access from the bastion host.
The "destination" can not connect to "nat" via nat's public.
All     All         sg-0b6616e070b9ea2d (public security group)
Agent forwarding takes care of forwarding your private key so it doesn't have to be stored on the bastion instance (never store private keys on any instance!!)
1) create a security group for your bastion host that will allow SSH access from your laptop (note this security group for step 4)
http://blogs.aws.amazon.com/security/post/Tx3N8GFK85UN1G6/Securely-connect-to-Linux-instances-running-in-a-private-Amazon-VPC
destination (the server in the private subnet which I want to connect to)
The AWS blog post above should be able to provide some nitty gritty regarding the process.
This can be done using the bastion host's security group ID (sg-#####).
Also, remember that your ssh_bastion should have an outbound rule that allows traffic out to other hosts and sg's.
5) use SSH agent forwarding (ssh -A user@publicIPofBastion) to connect first to the bastion, and then once in the bastion,SSH into any internal instance (ssh user@private-IP-of-Internal-Instance).
1) Make sure that the security group for this private instance has in the inbound rule the security group from the public subnet
Currently, I can SSH from public subnet to private subnet, also SSH from NAT to private subnet.
3) give that bastion host a public IP either at launch or by assigning an Elastic IP
There are several "destination" servers, do I need to setup one for each?
You can set up a bastion host to connect to any instance within your VPC:
This trumped me up a bit, since normally the ubuntu user is ubuntu on AWS.