Just because it works doesn't mean it's a good idea, however.
If you really needed to do this, there are solutions - such as mobile broadband - that provide a far better ratio of cost to convenience and reliability, if not lower cost overall: the phone call may be free, but the line rental probably won't be (especially if you're getting free calls) and even PAYG phones will probably expect you to top up every few months to keep the number connected.
A lot of phone companies give you a couple of phone numbers that you can call for free.
Probably conquerable but you would need alot of parity bits reducing your overall bandwidth to practically nothing.
Also, you will often find that free calls to n numbers offers tend to put a limit on the maximum length of each call you can place for free, although you can immediately re-dial and re-start the free clock.
In the past I had heard the same thing with other hold music.
If this is the case with all cellular providers, your data will most likely get corrupted in transit.
You also need to own and operate P2 (and its internet connection), rather than just connecting straight to the internet from P1.
I once had a conversation with the Verizon help line about a cell problem I was having.
What you are describing is dial-up internet, albeit with a mobile connection instead of copper wire between you and the ISP (P2).
While on hold I noticed their music kept cutting out and getting garbled.
The telcos can be quite open about this - I have even been instructed, entirely unsolicited, that re-dialing every hour was a valid strategy for avoiding any charges by the salesman while ordering a phone line, so I suspect the reason for the limit is to stop people just leaving a phone off the hook (either accidentally or deliberately to use it as talkback or to do something enterprising like this) and hogging a connection.
Asking the  help representative about it, he said that they use compression to reduce the call bandwidth on their system and noise cancellation to avoid street/wind noise from coming over the line to improve call quality.
As others have pointed out at length, you wouldn't get much bandwidth - dial up normally topped out at 56kbps, and you'd probably get less thanks to your mobile connections.