If you're using a Synology NAS, Cloud Station is the answer you're looking for.
Files are always accessible via the web and the Cloud Station folders on your local computers.
What’s more, you can now sync files with maximum size of 5GB.
Git and SVN are other options, not too sure about tortoise and mac though subversion definitely can run on mac (and is available by default).
Your work will always be up to date among Mac, PC, and mobile devices.
We will support storage servers (MS, Linux), and small appliances like RaspberryPI.
One that I use for backups (which I know isn't what you are looking for but figured i'd throw out there) is Bvckup http://www.bvckup.com/ .
This seems to be a common question that really doesn't have one solid product yet.
Recently, I started using AeroFS https://aerofs.com/ which has the same "shareability" as dropbox, but has no web interface.
Idea behind is Dropbox/Bitcasa solution working from your own storage, any type.
Means your can easily "link" several computers (Mac's, PC's, Linux underway) with small SSD storage with entire NAS with several TB of data.
You have to create two rsync lines (one with option --update and with --delete).
Since AeroFS is still in beta, I think you may need to get an invite.
http://www.synology.com/dsm/home_file_sharing_cloud_station.php
When your PC and DiskStation are in the same local area network (LAN), you can definitely enjoy a speedier transfer rate than what’s offered over the Internet."
If you don´t want to install software on your NAS you will have a lot of configuration work on all your devices.
You start by creating a group by inviting members, add files (local or remote storage) and group members can instantly access the data; small files can be synced right away, bigger will be intentional download.
If you're in the market for a NAS, I recommend buying the previous model from Amazon, not the latest Synology, if you're looking for a better price.
You could use on a mac for example Forklift and create a synclet for an easier access (like in the dock) or you use Hazel and create a task for automation.
We want to be much smarter than Dropbox: you can sync all your devices (if you want), but you do not have to download (sync) ALL data being shared with you - this is basic difference: data is available, not stuffing your drives.
If you then do some port forwarding, you would also have a web interface to your files through File Station in a similar (but prettier) way to Dropbox.
"If you own multiple devices, Cloud Station is perfect for you to have files synced automatically to all of them.
NOT not bi-directional access as you've described.
I'm pretty sure AeroFS will suite you best in this situation.
For your informations: It is possible to create a bi-directional sync with rsync - but it´s a little bit tricky.
I personally own a Synology DS212 and have found this feature to work great.