So, bandwidth is the difference between high and low frequency.
The signal-to-noise ratio depends on bandwidth, signal power and channel noise power.
Daily I see peoples even specialists in communication do mistakes about the three mentioned terms:
data rate = bandwidth x log_2(1 + signal-to-noise ratio)
BW is the range of frequencies that can pass through a channel ( Unit: Hz).
I totally understand the difference between bandwidth and throughput.
Imagine a narrow road and highway, road width as the BW and car going through as data.
Bit rate is the amount of data(number of bits) can be transmitted per second which sounds the same as throughput to me.
Data Rate: the unit is bps, so we can say the data rate of the channel is the maximum ability of the channel that can transmit bits in a second.
In the normal case, we can say that if we have 5MHz bandwidth, then the channel capacity (or data rate) is 5Mbps, but also it can be that the bandwidth is 5MHz but the data rate is 10Mbps, or 2.5Mbps, this is depends on the modulation type and some other Technics.
For example, the Bandwidth=5MHz, channel capacity(data rate)=10Mbps,but what we receive exactly is 6Mpbs due to any reason, so the throughput is 6Mbps... Hope I gave you an idea...
Throughput is the effective or the actual data rate on a link, so it is at most equal to  the data rate.
While bandwidth shows the maximum amount of data can be transmitted from a sender to a receiver, throughput is the actual amount of data that has been transmitted as they could be different factors such as latency affecting throughput.
So, when we measure bandwidth in bps, i.e we do mistake.
Beside, some guys working in Network field, totally they treat with the bandwidth as Data rate.
For example, bandwidth of a channel in FM is 0.2MHz, for a carrier is WCDMA is 5MHz.
Bandwidth: The unit of it is Hz, so it is mathematically is: High_Used_Frequency - Low_Used_Frequency.
Throughput: This term is used in many different systems, shortly, and clearly we can define it as: the real data that we receive.
Therefore, bandwidth is in general never the same as data rate.
They are the same only in the special case where the signal-to-noise ratio equals 2.
Data rate is the amount of data that passes through a medium per unit time ( Unit: bits/sec).
But if the data is maximum then it is equal to bandwidth.