Ultra-rugged devices, which are usually designed to meet precise specifications for military use, are made to handle the harshest environmental conditions.
There are three generally accepted levels of ruggedization: semi-rugged, fully-rugged and ultra-rugged.
(another moving part that adds weight to the device.)
The components are the same, but they are protected better.
Semi-rugged devices, which are increasingly being called business-rugged by marketers, are usually enhanced versions of commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware.
Rugged IT is a marketing term for hardware that is designed to operate in extremely harsh environments and conditions.
For example, a semi-rugged laptop might have a thicker case, a gel-mounted hard disk drive and a spill-resistant keyboard.
The levels of ruggardization are not standardized, which means that vendors have the freedom to use the labels as they see fit.
An ultra-rugged laptop can be left out in a sandstorm, frozen in a blizzard or sent on a vibrating rocket into space without any detrimental effects.
Most vendors incorporate other values in their self-evaluations to provide potential customers with some assurance that their products deserve the label they have been given.
Fully-rugged devices are designed from the inside-out to work in extreme temperatures, to be impervious to being dropped, to resist shocks and vibrations and to be dustproof and waterproof.
Since I was recently researching rugged tablets, here is a useful article I found.
The levels describe a product's ability to survive drops, vibration, dust, immersion and extreme temperatures.
A fully-rugged laptop may have a solid state hard drive, which has no moving parts, runs cool and doesn’t need for a fan.
The two most common values cited are from the Ingress Protection (IP) Code, a system for classifying the degrees of sealing protection provided by the enclosures of electrical equipment and MIL STD 810, a series of testing guidelines set by the U.S. Department of Defense for military and commercial equipment.