If there are other domains hosted there you could use mod_proxy (or your web server's equivalent) to achieve the same end.
When you change a DNS A record it takes time for this change to be reflected across the wider internet.
To find out what your TTLs are set to, check if your registrar's control panel displays it.
Alternatively, you could set the TTL very short a day or two before the change - that way the propagation delay will be short anyway.
Yes, there is a propagation delay for DNS changes because of the way they are cached.
In the output you will get something like the following:
This shows that the TTL value is an hour (3,600 seconds).
If you are planning to this in the future, lower the TTL of the A-record in advance.
yes, DNS propagation can from few seconds to few hours (depending upon your geographic location and the DNS servers in your area.
If you have not explicitly set it to something else then it will be something between 3 and 24 hours depending on your registrar.
If you have access to change the TTL of the domain, I would suggest doing so as this may help the changes be seen quicker.
It will still not be instantly changed everywhere, so expect a time frame in which both IPs will be accessed.
If you control the machine pointed to by the old IP address and it does not run any other web sites, you could install a redirector like rinetd to proxy connections to the new address.
which means your local DNS cache will now recheck the value no sooner than in 59 minutes time.
The length of the delay is controlled by the TTL ("Time To Live") value for the record.
Some registrars allow you to change the TTLs (and if you host your own DNS you have full control) though be aware that the change in TTL will take up to the old TTL's length to propagate.
you cannot put message of downtime, as it will only be shown, if your A record has been successfully propagated to every dns in world.
I actually have my TTLs permanently set to five minutes.
Also give them some way to contact you if they can't after 48 hours get the new site.
It is usually stated that this can take up to 48 hours although it can take considerably longer.
One thing you can do is that, just dont disable the old server yet, as the site should be UP from both servers unless the A record is properly populated.
If you are still owning the old IP you can display a message, proxy the request, etc.
What I would do is put a message on the old server telling people that the site is moving and when it is going to happen.
Though if the propagation period is short enough, you could replace all pages for that site on that server with a "the site will be back within X hours" message which is obviously easier.
to verify the dns resolution, take list of public DNS servers from internet and run this command:
By using a new sub-domain like this you know that the value is not already cached so you see the full TTL when you first query.
That way even people going to the old address will see the content from the new server (just a bit slower).
Don't set it too short: technically a TTL of 0 should mean "never cache this value" but some buggy DNS caches and client software will ignore anything below a certain value and assume something higher instead.
dig is available in just about every Linux setup (if it is not installed you will usually find it in the package "dnsutils") and is available for Windows via Cygwin (if you don't want a fuller Cygwin install, you could try partial copies like this one that includes just dig, host and whois.
One thing to remember is that if a user's DNS cache has not recently been asked about that particular name they will get the new value immediately on the next request so a TTL of two hours, so for the duration of the propagation period you should expect requests to both IP addresses.
If not, then create a new sub-domain A record and run dig sub.domain.tld.