You may need to play with the authentication settings, and you may need to know the actual name of the Exchange server to make this work.
RB,  Your company's helpdesk should be able to give you the configuration parameter, or even if you can configure Outlook in your scenario.
They would be able to provide instructions specific to your environment.
It'll be something like webmail.yourcompany.com or mail.yourcompany.com, etc.
You can try entering the name of the website site, and in the User Name field enter your username to log onto the web mail.
On the general tab type in a name for the Account (Exchange, Work, etc).
If you are on LAN,  you could get an idea of the settings by looking at another PC's settings.
Some companies only allow OWA (the internet URL you use) outside the firewall.
Other companies enable HTTP/RPC, IMAP, or POP/SMTP over the internet so Outlook will work outside the firewall, but you need to know the name of the server(s) to configure it.
Your best bet would be to ask your company mail admin or help desk if using Outlook to access Exchange from home is supported or not.
Outlook 2007 will attempt to autodiscover the correct settings, but I don't think Outlook 2003 will.
On the new window type in the URL for the Website that you currently use for accessing your mailbox without any folder names.
On the new account screen you'll need to enter the name of the Exchange server.
Keep in mind this might not work at all because RCP over HTTP is disabled.
In the proxy authentication drop down select the NTLM authentication option.
Click the Check Name box and see if it finds your mailbox.
So Outlook only works on the LAN, and through VPNs.
If your company has enabled the RPC over HTTP Option for the Exchange server then you can use Outlook remotely.
If they have not (it is not enabled by default) then you can not use Outlook and you'll need to continue to use Outlook Web Access (that's what the website you are using is called).
On the Connection tab check the Connect to Microsoft Exchange using HTTP and click the Exchange Proxy Settings button.