My question is how does something like this happen, how can your router’s firmware be suddenly changed to another one and that too of a different company and how could I access a different person’s network settings ( well access is kind of a stretch I could see and edit his network settings if I wanted to, but what good does that do for me ) Also one more question is this a lapse from the network provider in terms of security, I mean in the case of individuals it’s more or less a minor issue, but for some financial institutions or businesses this could be a risk right?
The possibility that it might’ve been someone’s wireless hot spot is also unlikely as my compound wall stretches far and my dogs would go haywire if anything came even close to the walls.
I don't think it was a firmware or virus attack on your router.
You are supposed to be privately separated from other ISP users on the segment.
The latest firmware version I found for the Dir-816 dates
I also called my network provider (it’s a fiber optics connection ) he confirmed that there indeed was a guy ( with the name and initials as on the Tenda login page ).
The engineer's that work for your ISP goofed up somewhere, it was a legitimate router.
This suspicion is confirmed when they said they do have a customer with that name in the account database.
When I logged in the settings used a different username ( with some other guy’s name and initials ) so I logged out reset my router and everything is back to normal.
(I suggest that even if my virus attack theory is wrong).
I suggest to ask your ISP for a newer router model with recent firmware
reset the firmware with data gleaned from another victim.
I called dlink to see if they were purchased by this Tenda, they said no and they were equally clueless as me on this issue, they said they’ve never heard anything like this.
This might have been an random virus attack that took over your router and
Today it rebooted all of a sudden and when it came back online the name of the wifi etc where reverted to default.
This was a really strange thing, so I use a Dlink Dir-816 router.
Ok this was not a big deal but when I logged on to router homepage to reconfigure the settings out of nowhere it’s showing a page called Tenda ( this was the first time I ever heard of a company named Tenda, turns out it’s a legit company ) The login password was not the one I use, it was the default company password so I was able to login.
It basically means that you do not have a private connection.
On a side note I live in a very isolated location there are no houses or anything nearby at least for half a kilometre, so there are no other networks that my devices could have picked up.