For most applications the automatic update check can be disabled, so we did this.
Things I haven't used that are pretty standard include Microsoft System Center, Numara Asset Manager, etc.
At the company where I work we are using OCS-Inventory to do that.
Installation occurs at startup, however scheduling occurs at logoff or shutdown (can't remember which).
There are lots of ways to handle this sort of thing, and it depends on how much you want to spend, how big your environment is, and whether you'd rather spend money or time.
Some of the various things I've used in the past to do this:
How To Use Group Policy To Remotely Install Software
Applications like Java which can not be updated when in use we schedule to the sunday when people are out of the office, we have a maintenance window there and just upgrade at that point.
It would be nice to have a one-time admin password for example ...
To deploy applications, including java you can use Microsoft SMS or a program alike.
Our users do not have local admin rights our their computers, hence, the IT departement is required each time :
Any MSI package can be installed directly using group policy, including any Transforms that might be created.
I am currently using this in our production environments to manage Java, Flash and Reader.
No more bug messages to users, and we decide when we want to upgrade.
Using a tool like Orca or SuperOrca you can generally customize these MSI/MST files to do whatever setting changes you need, or in the case of applications like Java or Flash player you can use Computer Configuration->Preferences->Windows Settings->Files to deploy configuration files in the same GPO you install with.
We are running our company network with a few 2008 R2 AD server and windows 7 workstations.
So in order for a package to get installed, the group policy that triggers the installation must have been refreshed on the local system prior to the restart that will install it.
Group policy should, in most cases, be refreshing every 4 hours or so anyway, so for production this isn't usually a huge problem, but if you're not prepared for it during testing you'll simply think it's not working.