It must have been at least 100 notebooks from a office centre that went belly-up, no problems what-so-ever.
The Win10 files can be downloaded from Microsoft for free and as long as you have a Win7 or 8 license it will activate.
The fix was simple - boot to a Win10 bootable USB (or DVD if you have that option) When you get to the 'where to install' screen, delete all of the partitions - that wipes out the bitlocker info and Win10 installs without a hitch.
(Not sure whether the phone would even accept an SD card without partition.)
I just install Windows and when it comes to the time where setup asks you where you want to install Windows, I use "advanced options" to delete all partitions.
I inherited a fully loaded Lenovo laptop that had Win8 that the local IT shop was hired to upgrade to Win10  The PC had bitlocker on and they had the key but somehow blew the install and told the customer it was trashed.
Did this numerous times on a bunch of notebooks we aquired for recycling (I work at a thrift store of some sort), which were all encrypted with Bitlocker.
For those wiping a disk or memory card with Linux, I can confirm that wiping the first 4 MB and creating a new fat32 filesystem worked fine for me for an SD card used in a Windows phone.
When I try to boot from a windows installation cd I have no access to the drive since it asks for the restore key I don't have.
For an hour of my time and $25 for a new charger I got an i7 8gb touchscreen convertible that brand new was easily $1000 plus - not too shabby!
The interesting thing was that Windows was automatically activated.
(The SD card was no longer available after a device reset.)
Just go to https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows10 select create media to download the installation tool.
Login, password and restorekey are unknown and all I want to do is wipe the whole drive.
Then let setup create a new partition for you and presto, you're done.
Is there a way to format the whole drive to make it usable again?
The instructions for creating bootable USB or DVD media are on that page.