Second solution is to get a VPS, like say digital ocean droplet.
If you cannot log into the router you can try doing UPNP.
Depending on office policy you may however not be allowed to do that.
What comes to mind is a 3rd party (closed source) solution called Hamachi (see Hamachi for Linux) They have a beta version for pi/arm available.
When you call out the router knows where to send the replies too.
Then both your Pi and Office call the VPS (both Pi and Office PC initiate outgoing connection which then automagically opens a port in NAT for that session) This may require a bit more config on the VPS but essentially like double reverse proxying.
Usage with the raspberry pi is super easy assuming you are using raspbian(see their instructions on how to set it up with the raspberry pi.)
You basically get your Pi to SSH to you, creating a reverse proxy so to speak.
First solution is the get your Pi to call you at the office.
A home router should work fine, more commercial ones have this disabled for most ports.
Bypassing that, the only way I have done that is to have a 3G/4G connection to bypass the corporate firewall.. sneaky.. but they can't block that traffic.
I use a website called weaved which allows you to connect via ssh, http, or almost any protocol for free.
Some more clever routers inspect packets to see if it is truly HTTP traffic and not some other stuff going on.
But you need to enable port forwarding at the office though.
You can bypass some strict firewalls by SSH'ing over port 80.
Just use your favorite search engine and investigate that subject, you will find tons of information and providers.
With Hamachi, both ends connect to the Hamachi server and communicate via a dedicated encrypted (private) virtual network.
If I remember well, up to 5 participants can take part in each network for free.
I want to connect my raspberry pi from outside of my home network and trying to connect from my office.
Well there are 2 solutions without using extra software.
Otherwise, without opening a port on your router (NAT) - The router doesnt know where the packets need to go to.
I'd recommend using a dynamic DNS service for that purpose.
However, there are limitations to the session times and the remote devices.