I've also experimented with stuffing all the domains to propagate into a special zone, and used a simple script on the slaves to rebuild the named.conf based on what they see in the master zone.
I populate a text file with a list of zones and the primary NS IP for the zone, and stick it on a website that I allow my slaves access to.
You could also use a higher level configuration management system such as puppet, to manage your entire DNS infrastructure.
There are many situations where only certain domains should be replicated with any given slave.
Using rsync on your entire /var/named tree works pretty well if you write your zones correctly and make sure named.conf lives in /var/named.
It won't work with dynamic updates though, and is sorta against the grain for "how things should be done".
I don't know of any way to do this natively to bind9 if you're using flatfile backend.
Maybe you're looking for a configuration management system like Puppet or CFEngine?
If you're interested in a scripting solution, here's what I use:
Basically the same deal as the text file above, but feeding it from DNS to keep everything in-band.
I should probably publish the script before I end up losing it =/
I do not claim extraordinary scripting-fu powers, so feel free to criticize, but be gentle.
More to the point, it would be undesirable to have it do so.
There are various DB-backed systems which can help automate it.
Also, you could look at checking your files into and out of CVS/SVN.
It's "automatic" in the sense that I don't have to manually ssh to my secondaries and update configs, but it's still external to bind9.
In the days of everybody and their mom having their own domains, it surprises me there isn't a good solution for this integrated with Bind by now =/
There's extra infrastructure involved, but they can handle distributing a lot of configuration stuff, and could easily include this too.
I second (or third) the above suggestions to check out Puppet or CFEngine.
The slaves fetch this file periodically, and if it has changed they parse it generate a named.conf, and tell bind to reload configs.