My goal as a software/hw professional is to be more productive when I need to use several applications simultaneously when I work.
Relatedly, there is an issue I don't know how to address.
What would be desirable is to open Photoshop in one window and then when I move to my coding IDE, Photoshop continues to run on core 1, not affected by another application.
When that happens is it possible to add an addendum to my post.
Please consider these questions as a request for tech knowledge, not advice or recommendations on any HW or SW buying choice, which is off topic on this forum.
I do understand the concept that CPUs only understand instructions, not programs.
If I purchase a VPS with 2 cpu's do I have exclusive access to 2 physical cpu's?
I can often times find benchmarks that compare performance on certain tasks such as for gaming ( Frames per second).
With that in mind, it would be desirable to somehow give an app exclusive access to at least one core so that background apps do not cause the Photoshop window to display "not responding".
To some degree this might be difficult to achieve as there always 10's or 100's of background apps ( daemon apps on Linux) on computers with CPU'S having 8 cores for example.
I've also noticed misunderstandings of what I am asking.
However, I have long wanted to use my multiple cores to quickly switch between apps faster.
I did find one software app that addresses application affinity and it uses AI/Machine Learning to improve.
I do recognize the issue of shared L2 & L3 cache as well as Ram.
Now back to my actual questions that are the main focus of this posting.
I haven't yet explored manual control of this, where are could designate that one window should have exclusive control of a CPU core and no other thread could interrupt it.
Google Chrome opens a new process on Windows OS ( other os's too I imagine).
This is just an example of why it seems theoretically possible.
And switching tabs I see many times on the most latest Cpu's.
That being said, theoretically, different windows running different apps should be able to do what I have in mind.
When I got my degree in computer engineering in 1989, we applications sending interrupts requiring the computer state to be saved in RAM and then changing tasks/programs and then loading original app and resuming.