Both extremes have examples of truly awesome support and products, and complete failures and brain-deadness... find other metrics ^^
One-off applications that are more utility things I tend not to care so much about.
This is especially true when we bring in trial versions of things and actually give the support environment a good test along with the software.
Before implementing the application, however, I'd make sure the back-end which hosts the application is scalable so that the application can continue to run smoothly, whether the company has 4 employees or grows to 4000 employees.
All things being equal we will go with the vendor who's support we like best.
I was recently responsible for investigating a variety of tools, and it turned out that the smallest company was the only company that could solve our business problem and the only company that responded to questions promptly when we asked them.
Depends on how many solutions are available on the market for a particular necessity and how critical the process is that the software is supporting.
I'd pick whichever application best meets the need and requirements of the business, regardless of company size.
Small companies can often offer better support and more help, as they're closely tuned to each customer because they're smaller and because they have less customers.
Provided they have proven that they have enough support structure to solve our issues.
On the other hand, smaller companies tend to have a smaller product set and are more focused on that then having to split their attention between multiple things.
As it turned out, choosing the smaller company was cheaper, more effective, and definitely better in the long run (free updates for life, with support contract?!)
For things like ERP application plugins, smaller vendors can be very helpful because they're more responsive to our wants and needs.
The size of a company often indicates its success and ability, but companies that become holders for smaller companies often screw-up the original product or replace its small, active support team with larger, more intrusive support bureaucracies.
I've dealt with my share of both small, medium and large companies and I've seen no correlation whatsoever to the quality of their product nor their support or longevity with regard to their size.
In this sense it's not so much the size of the company but rather the history of the company and its reputation.
If I'm purchasing software to support a critical business process then I want to make sure that the company I buy from is going to be viable and be providing support 1 year, 5 years, 10 years down the road.
Smaller vendors have the risk of being quickly overwhelmed if their product takes off of if they get a new customer that is very large.
In general we choose the application that best fits our need regardless of the size of the organization behind it.
Also true for when I'm not going to require support.
We have the same debate here at the university where I work.