), and how those licenses are allocated within the company.
One thing I realized is that there are two different components of license management:
We use Zenoss for our monitoring solution, and it is able to report installed software by looking at standard SNMP mibs.
For license management 'automation' you can use OCS Inventory alongside GLPI.
Completely independent of all the disks and files for "proof of ownership" we maintain a software library that's only accessible to admins that has install files for everything we might want to install.
We also keep physical install media and manuals here too.
Sometimes when we buy a one-off package, we'll just open the box, register the software and install it from the original disks, but if we ever need to re-install it, we'll copy whatever we need to the software library.
When you activate, it records the activation at MS, so you can't go over your number of licenses.
We don't actually keep the license keys on this page... just the last few digits so that we can identify it.
This is where we list the licensing arrangement (whether it uses individual licenses, site license, license server, etc.
There are install files for all the big packages, sometimes multiple versions, and for the smaller ones.
The clients activate against this KMS server and not Microsoft, so you don't have to worry about activation issues but still have to keep your ducks in a row of course.
For proof of ownership, we err on the side of caution and try to save as much paperwork as possible for everything we buy:
All workstations are centrally managed and imaged, so the burden of tracking installed software is quite small.
Of course, this is an added value to install these two tools, which offer much more than license management.
Whatever you do to manage software has to meet these two different needs.
Depending on how many machines you have, you could investigate Microsoft Volume Licensing  such as Open Value.
But be careful, Microsoft engineered the "true up" process specifically to make it easy for software installations to magically appear on your network without anyone noticing.
With this key, you need to have a Key Management Server setup onsite.
So you don't have to worry about activation Issues.
The Microsoft licensing programs can be kind of a pain to work through, and their are a lot of them, so I would recommend calling MS from that Open Value site or calling a reseller like CDW and have them walk you through your options.
Sometimes this is the printout of the email that contains the license keys.
We also have a big locked filing cabinet where all the physical software licenses are actually kept.
In addition, Zenoss will solve all sorts of other problems that you don't know you have yet.
We have a section of our wiki that has a page for every piece of third-party software we use.
Going forward, stop licensing Microsoft software via OEMs.
We're a ~20 company that uses mostly open-source software.
We can see what packages are installed on all mac, windows, and linux hosts.
Sometimes this is a cutout section of the software box that contains proof-of-purchase.
OCS Inventory runs agents in each machine and retrieves software information (among other information) and provides it to GLPI, where you can insert the related licenses.
That way you can get one key that has multiple activations.
However, we do have ~50 commercially licensed software packages though.
You can see how it works (more or less) in the demo page (Inventory -> Software).
It can be used as many times as you want without being tracked by Microsoft.
We also use this page for software-specific documentation on how we've deployed the software, etc.