On recent versions of SQL Server, 2005+, I've had the best success with the "ACE" drivers.
(If you are interested, I did a few of blog entries "Legacy Connectivity in a 64 bit world" about three or four years ago, covering dbase/foxpro issues, 32/64 bit issues, plus db/2 and other stuff.
This was back before the 64 bit ACE drivers were released, and things are better now.)
The release for Office 2010 that comes in 32 bit and 64 bit versions.
They are OLEDB based, but you wouldn't necessarily notice.
Getting that going can be a hassle, depending on your infrastructure.
We're trying to access Foxpro file-based database files via MSSQL Server's linked server feature, using Foxpro ODBC driver.
This is usually a problem with delegation and security.
If we try to expand it, Management Studio goes into loop yet again.
You may also find that accessing files on the network is harder than accessing the same file on a local disk.
You will want to be sure that the provider representing your drivers (look under the Linked servers folder for the Providers folder) is set to "Allow in process" and .
With the new drivers, you don't need to create a system DSN like with the old ODBC drivers.
The first thing to do is to make sure that you are using 32 bit drivers if you have a 32 bit SQL Server and 64 bit drivers if you are using a 64 bit SQL Server.
There is probably more than there than you would want to read.
I have had the old ODBC drivers from Microsoft bring down server instances, so i avoid them.
There should be plenty of examples of how to create linked servers using ACE drivers (both with TSQL and the SSMS GUI) on the internet.
The redistributable ACE drivers are available for download  on Microsoft's site.
64 bit SQL Servers can't use 32 bit ODBC (or OLEDB or anything else) drivers.
When Management Studio is forcibly closed and restarted the new linked server is there but only contains Catalogues subitem.
But the last step never completes (Executing is displayed forever).
These drivers replace the old "JET" drivers and were introduced with Office 2007.