I have found several posts suggesting that I disable every item except IPv4 from the hosted network, but unfortunately I still can't connect to the internet via my mobile.
  -also check the connectivity by pinging the devices IP from your PC
Once these steps were completed I confirmed that my wired connection had shared listed under it, and the hosted network that I had created had the same domain as the wired network listed under it.
Is there somehting that I'm missing in this process, or any troubleshooting that anyone can suggest?
I've faced exactly the same problem and found a solution that worked for me.
I've found plenty of tutorials, and while all of the steps seem to work the connection itself is not allowing my mobile to connect to the internet.
How to check if Symantec is blocking the Internet access
Both of them are connecting to your network, you are sharing the Wireless Network Connection to your hostednetwork, your mobile connection would be broken as it might try to use the Local Area Connection which is not shared.
If you have 2 connections, one is Local Area Connection, another one is Wireless Network Connection.
I can connect to MySSID from my mobile and I've successuflly been assigned an IP address, however, there is no internet connection.
  -in network sharing centre that both the hosted adapter and the wired adapter should show 'Access Type: Internet'
but i had to provide static IP for the hosted network adapter and in the mobile devices as its not getting dynamic IP[dont know why!!]
Refer: https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-way-to-share-internet-connection-PPPOE-over-WiFi-of-my-laptop
On the mobile WiFi connection settings for the virtual hotspot, enter the same proxy server information used by the wired network.
Anti-virus programs would prevent the Internet access from your mobile.
I had similar problems, and found it was caused by 2 reasons.
NOTE: not sure if the setting is safe, please be careful.
The wired network does use a proxy, and I have tested the connection from my mobile with the proxy settings both ignored and included.
Here are the steps that I have carried out (via cmd which was opened using the Run as administrator option) -
I have a Windows 7 laptop and I am trying to set it up to broadcast Wi-Fi so that my mobile can connect to it when in the office (no mobile signal).
 https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-way-to-share-internet-connection-PPPOE-over-WiFi-of-my-laptop
A clue from Deepak's answer, solved this at my system.