As an aside, Tomato's QoS implementation (once configured appropriately) actually works very well, whereas DD-WRT's is made of fail from personal experience.
I've not ventured into OpenWRT waters yet so can't vouch for its efficacity, but Tomato really is simple to flash to a supported WRT54GL (WRT54G v4) or other supported Linksys device.
There are other particularly good pieces of hardware that can run WRT/Tomato firmwares, though I stick with the WRT54GLs because I like their retro design and stackability ;-)
If possible, I would install OpenWRT and then install snmpd and luci-app-statistics packages.
I've considered installing the tomato firmware on some cheap home/home office routers, but if there's a commercial product that can be purchased that would be significantly simpler.
DD-WRT has both a monthly traffic view and a real-time bandwidth monitor as part of the default web status pages.
pfSense -- rrd/mrtg style graphs are built in, no configuration or 3rd party packages required.
In order to justify current and future purchases, a number of the libraries have requested routers that can provide bandwidth usage graphs that they can show to their managing boards.
I support a large number of public libraries that are having their networks upgraded in response to a grant application.
It is not necessary to show traffic by IP, by protocol/application, or by time of day.
Here are some screen shots of both pages on my installation.
Further, the reports just need to show overall trends.
Once it's installed and running, nothing else is needed except a web browser.
And even though most people download and install it themselves, they do offer paid commercial services and setup as well.
I'm familiar with MRTG/PRTG/tools that collect SNMP data from the router, but the libraries don't have the expertise for the configuration.
Is there a small business router that displays traffic graphs in the router administration web interface?
Only thing to remember is that the statistics are forgotten after the reboot of the router.
Like other WRT-based firmwares, you can even admin it remotely or SSH into it, so you could do emergency tweaking or config changes without having to attend should the need arise.
Tomato also has some nice realtime (SVG) bandwidth graphing - and it can also show realtime-updated pie charts based on QoS usage, which I use almost daily (just keeping an eye on things of course!).
These libraries are generally home to between 6-15 computers and have little or no tech services either onsite or contracted remotely.
Cheap, cheerful and very stable, a real set and forget box.
Also the library boards would be much more likely to approve the purchase of a commercial product over a 'hacked' one.
With SNMP you can use Cacti to do the graphs and with luci-app-statistics you can see the traffic history as graphs on the web interface of the router.
They just need an overall week to week, month to month, trend line.
If you set up the rules beforehand - a five minute job - they could then see what's utilising the link on a momentary basis straight from the web ui.
The router needs to suppport DHCP and basic firewalling.