If you are constantly seeing it then you are likely the victim of a man in the middle (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack) attack.
ANY other kind should be treated with the greatest suspicion.
You can do view source then look for https://whatever and type that in to the address bar and then allow it through - however do not permanently store exceptions unless you really trust the site.
By allowing exceptions you are completely forfeiting one of the protections afforded by the certificate - trust.
When I hit GoDaddy with my own firefox, I don't get an error, I do get to GoDaddy's certificate, which is signed by their CD (Go Daddy Secure Certification Authority) which my browser trusts.
It would help to know what kind of invalid error is occuring.
The reason about formatting is because if you have a certificate error in IE and accept, it renders the whole page from all sources where as in Firefox, as many sites have content from different domains, you need to accept the ssl from those sites as well.
If you throw up the SHA1 or MD5 hash of the certificate, I will gladly cross check with what I see here:
It would help to know the specific failure of the ssl certificate, however in my experience, the most likely cause is your system time/date, as you said you had the same problem in a VM.
I'm assuming you don't have any add-ons that do validity checks to OSCP or CRLs... that's a heavy duty security thing that most normal people don't use.
Do not set exceptions, they are ment to be exceptions not the norm.
The only time you should ever trust an unsigned certificate is a self signed one you have created yourself.
If you do have a client for OCSP checking, let me know which one and what it's results say.
Companies (ecommerce, banks etc) pay a lot of money to people like Verisign to get a certificate that they counter sign.
I would strongly suggest you reinstall your operating system, something is not right and if you have been infected with spyware / malware or rootkitted then the only way to reverse it is to start from a clean slate.