I personally can't think of anything good that would cause it to smell as if it was burning, but I'm just covering all the bases there.
If it starts to do it again after all this time, something has changed... and it is rarely due to a good reason.
If you have had the power adapter for months or years, it should not produce that smell any more.
It did smell a bit weird, but I'm not sure if that's normal (due to heat or whatever)..
...So one of these times that I just touched the cable, it did this chirping cricket sound and I unplugged it immediately.
As far fetched as that may sound: If you know anybody (Ham operator for example) with access to an oscilloscope, try to have him check with it what the adapter will output into a test load.
The DC end that goes into the laptop was unplugged and the AC end was plugged into the mains (actually the plug sucks, so it could have been that it was...you know...just on the border.
So, an audible from a device not designed to produce any sound, and an olfactory from a device that shouldn't produce a smell.
Again, there are always exceptions and unique situations.
If the power adapter is relatively new... and I mean a week or two old... then it can be expected to still produce that odd, "electronic" smell.
I'm not advising you to ever use that power adapter again, because I'm covering all the bases.
Getting and losing contact many times in a short amount of time if I moved the cable a bit)
I would find another place to plug in and I would replace the defective receptacle.
I suspect you are taking a chance on a surge from what you describe.
Chances are, you will need a new power adapter soon... if not now.
Chances are that you could use it right up until it dies and nothing bad would happen to your laptop, simply because of the way that DC adapters are designed.
A normal voltmeter will hide some types of periodic voltage excursions which could be harmful to your laptop, do not rely on one.
DC adapters are designed that when they fail, they don't necessarily surge.