I was torn between different engines but finally setled on Cocos2d.
Check this link - http://www.cocos2d-x.org/wiki/cocos2d-x/Chapter_1_-_Create_a_New_cocos2d-x_project_with_multi-platforms
I'm sorry that I probably didn't solve your problem, maybe I made it even worse.
I would suggest Cocos2d-x (C++ version) as objective-c version has some performance issues when your update cycle is Overloaded.This performance issues is ONLY because of the message passing System in Objective-C.
I have only had a quick once over look at Corona and it does seem nice.
Mobile platforms are quite restrictive in and of them selves so trying to knock out a game that will work in multiple platforms can be a daunting task especially if its your first.
As others said,You need to depend on the support of 'third party Engine' if any thing NEW comes up!But cocos2d is flexible at that moment!
Porting to Android would most likely require a rewrite of your code in Java.
I haven't used Corona.It needs a license if you need to publish.Cocos2d on the other hand is really flexible and stable 'graphics' engine right now.
Then add up the weights to choose which engine to use.
As for your check list as far as cocos2d is concerned
The problem with an engine like Corona or Unity is, that you're mostly limited to what they include in their API.
Especially the easy deployment to different platforms makes it interesting if you plan to release for Android and iOS.
If you find some good C++ library that would be useful for your game you can add that rather easily (as long as it compiles for iOS).
If you are targeting multiple platforms,Cocos2d-X is ready for that as well!
Programming in Objective-C is most likely to be more difficult than using a scripting language, unless you have some previous experience with C or C++.
The big plus of Cocos2D is, that it's native code and you can mix and match it with other libraries.
My advice to you is to make a checklist of your most important features and add a weight (or preference) to each point.
Apparently corona doesn't come with a particle engine (you'll need a license for an addon).