Some good suggestions here from other posters about ruling out the software, and tweaking your RAID performance.
Oh, and to pimp my work some more, and put a wall of text into battle against your wall of text, a guide I wrote to track down performance problems: http://www.anchor.com.au/hosting/development/HuntingThePerformanceWumpus covers everything you should need to know about tracking down performance problems.
You won't get double the performance, but it'll give you some more ooomph.
If you're reasonably sure about your UPS and server stability, try mounting that file system using the data=writeback mount option instead of the default data=ordered.
250GB disks aren't exactly mind-bendingly expensive these days.
This is especially annoying if you're running databases which often have to issue a fsync() call.
It's worth mentioning that if your workload is write-heavy, then going for hardware with a battery-backed write cache is likely to be the right thing to do if you're considering replacing your kit.
By default, under ext3, any fsync issued by any application under any user account forces the entire journal to disk.
The long term solution might be switching to a better file system, though.
You will be sacrificing reliability in the face of a server crash, but if your performance gets hit this bad anyway it's not a big loss.
The only drawback is that it can't be shrunk the way ext2/3 can be shrunk - it can be expanded though.
If that's up around 100%, then I'd just throw more spindles at it, putting them in a RAID-10.
This is even more annoying when running over RAID devices which don't support write barriers (don't know if MPT devices support them, sorry.)
This was an unbelievable yet a fact number for me.
First check to make sure that one of your disks isn't dying (sector remapping can do bad things to IO), and run sar -d 1 0 and look at the %util numbers for the physical disks.
It smells like you're just filling up on IO capacity.
It seems that stat64 syscall was forced to wait for the dump operation to be finished.