I think that NAT is partially responsible for the delay in the need for IPv6 adoption, as it helped prevent the world from running about of assignable IPv4 addresses.
I think in five years well begin to see a significant increase in IPv6 usage, but I'm not going to predict whether it'll be 5% or 50% penetration.
If we didn't have cheap NAT, we would have had to move to IPv6 years ago just to keep up with all the internet connected devices that are proliferating.
Had we a demand for IPV6 due to loss of IPv4 addresses years ago, we would long since have the hardware available to support it.
However, keep in mind that the infrastructure is what's really preventing change.
Firewalls will have characteristics of NATs, and we'll see NAT because that's how ISPs operate, but it will go away as people desire more powerful use of the internet.
Does that cheap consumer inkjet with a WLAN card support IPv6?
For the bits that connect the user's computers with the Intarwebz, I suspect it'll be several more years outside of Japan.
Incidentally, the free pr0n site is ipv6experiment dot com, but it's still not live.
The smaller high tech countries will switch first (smaller infrastructure), and the US will lag to a small degree.
At this point, I'd expect most computers will Just Work if presented with CPE that is advertising an IPv6 route, but other devices may be a different story.
Comcast's IP link to your cable box) will be IPv6 soon, if not already, because RFC 1918 doesn't provide enough address space.
Push content is something that has suffered at the hands of NAT, and the iPhone, for instance, is now using a model where internet servers alert it for software and data use.
Cellular networks have it easy because the devices tend to be centrally provisioned.
(In Japan, it's another story, as there are fixed-line phones on sale there that require IPv6.)
If infrastructure weren't a problem, then we would have transitioned long ago, even if NAT was available.
Without the infrastructure being in place all the way to the end user, some IPv6 to IPv4 translation will be required.
Will we hide behind a single IP address for security?
Even with Cisco, you need an 877 (for ADSL) to get IPv6 — not an 857 — and ISPs are orders of magnitude more likely to go with modems that are as cheap as they can possibly find (i.e.
Europe and Japan already have made significant progress, but there's too much old equipment in the US to switch over quickly.
I'm certain that NAT will remain in widespread use even under IPv6 for reasons of security, control, and management.
But I expect in 10 years or so the majority of internet traffic will be routed via IPv6, and most ISPs will have more IPv6 customers than IPv4 only.
We were facing an IP allocation crisis early on, but now it's been largely resolved.
ZyXEL 660); you're lucky if those support IPv4 reasonably well.
NAT was really a solution to avoid upgrading the infrastructure, but it's the infrastructure that is holding us back.
NAT has given us a certain amount of security, but at a big cost of liberty.
Do you think NAT is largely responsible for the delay in IPv6 adoption?
I concur with Alnitak's pointing to CPE as a problem.
I believe we'll see NAT or NAT like devices available for IPv6, but my expectation is that we'll forgo that for more liberty in how we use the internet.
The biggest blocker to widespread IPv6 adoption is end user equipment.
All the ISP level and above routers and equipment being purchased handles IPv6, but it's going to be about 3-5 years before the old equipment is cleared away enough that ISPs and hosting companies will fell comfortable starting to depreciate IPv4 in favor of IPv6.
(That link is completely work-safe, as the nasty stuff is several clicks away.)