It was nice to have a single screen I could look at directly, but I rarely had to use all that real estate at once.
I want to build a new computer and purchase new monitor(s).
Would it be better to get three 17" 4:3 LCDs instead of two widescreens?
There's absolutely nothing wrong with using a pair of widescreen monitors in tandem together.
You'll either need a gadget like this, a second video card, or one of ATI's new 5xxx series cards that support "Eyefinity".
I have a dual monitor setup with two 24" Dell LCD monitors.
In my experience, though, a three-display setup is rather more pleasant to use, as there's not a bezel smack-dab in the middle of your field of vision.
There's some other obvious bonuses as far as gaming is concerned, too, but this probably isn't an issue for you.
My question is: Do widescreens suck for using them as dual monitors?
This is great for software development (I use Visual Studio 2008/2010), as this allows me to easily have 2 open documents open next to each other per screen.
Connecting more than two monitors, though, is a bit more difficult.
I would go for the largest monitors you can feasibly afford, as larger screen sizes equate to higher resolutions (more stuff fits on the screen).
If i go with widescreens, should i go with the smallest ones i can find?
With widescreen monitors, you get a bit extra horizontal resolution, and since most humans have two horizontally-oriented eyes, this works out well.
This is also why 4:3 monitors are a lot harder to find, too; people prefer a monitor that fills their field of view better.
Can anyone with this setup comment on their experience with having multiple widescreen monitors?
However, the stores in my country only seem to have widescreen monitors nowadays, and the only 4:3 LCDs i have been able to find are 17".
Also, any docking apps that cling/stick to the left/right can also be fully utilized with such extra horizontal space.
Purchasing a single big widescreen monitor is not an option for me, since being able to maximize an app on a specific area of the screen is a must have for me and im not willing to use "hacky" apps for this purpose that do a crappy job.
I used to have three 21" setup, but I found this to be a bit overkill.
If you go with that last option, too, you'll either need a DisplayPort-capable monitor, or a DisplayPort-to-DVI converter box.
At my old job I had two 20" 4:3 and I absolutely loved this setup.