In order for you to simulate endocytosis (the process of the cell eating external cores), each core, both inside and outside of the amoeba, would repel the boundary of the amoeba.
As for simulating the boundary of the amoeba, I like Matt Kemp's idea of using a very large number of connected springs.
Measure the distance between the points on the string.
Having a lower salt content would cause the amoeba to flex and bend under the influence of the environment easier.
This does not maintain a constant area, but a constant perimeter.
Join the last one up to the first to create a loop.
Since a higher salt content would give the cores a higher repulsive effect, it have the advantage of making the amoeba easier to control.
That strikes me as the pain in all of this, so let's try and come up with a easy solution to that.
This mimics the process of endocytosis quite well, and gives a nice visual effect.
Trivially, your two cores/eyes/control points create forces onto the points that make up the string.
Well to do the graphical effect you would most likely use metaballs (theres plenty of tutorials online for them)
Off the top of my head, the clause that sticks out to me is that you want the area to be constant.
If the amoeba has a high salt content, it would have a larger volume, but the perimeter would not change.
Make the force fall off with an inverse square function:
Break the string and re-join it with the two points adjacent.
When a collision like this is detected, the circular indentation is erased and whatever inside of it is consumed.
Make sure the springs in the string have a high enough spring constant to not get stretched apart - you want them to be quite rigid and move in unison, not to expand out.
The game is free and probably more important is that they stated on their site clearly that they intend to make the source code available for free and it was made in ActionScript 3 and is a flash based game.
Some other ideas to make the game realistic would be being able to modify the salt content of cells somehow.
Eventually, the two sides (highlighted green) will touch each other.
I may be wrong, but my intuition says that the inside of that string has a constant area, or would act an awful lot like your amoeba boundary.
Re-insert the missing number of points (plus any bonus points if you want to expand in size by eating something) into the string in the other side - i.e, the side from B to A.
In the game, this could be simulated by giving the inside cores a higher repulsive effect if the salt content is higher.
As the outside core (red) approaches the amoeba, it's repulsive field will create a circular indentation in the amoeba.
You can make these random places, change their force regularly (you could make it a sinusoid function for nice movements) and make them work in the same way as the balls.
If you insert them equally along the length and make them shorter than the desired distance between points, you should get a nice springy-expandy effect.
Make sure that K isn't too high - you don't want it to just be pushed out massively by the force, just keep it away from the balls.
;) Most physics libraries can do springs (in Box2D this looks like the distance joint), and the easiest way to make a string is to connect lots of strings together.
You cause it to envelop an object by checking to see if two non-adjacent points on the string have managed to get close enough, and if so you need to:
Well I know of an educational game called CellCraft (no relation to Minecraft though) which involves controlling  cell-like creature that has very similar movements to what you need.
And make the direction of the force directly away from the control eye/ball, like a repellent force emanating from the ball.
With just those two you will probably end up with quite a uniform shape, so I'd also suggest you create some weaker forces around in the surrounding 'soup' to change the shape of the amoeba.
In real life, water can flow freely in and out of a cell membrane (the amoeba boundary), so cells do not have a constant volume.
In other words, directly join point A to point B and discard all the stuff inbetween.
This has the advantage of being able to eat other cores easier, since the amoeba would be able to surround it easier.
The cores inside of the amoeba will have a moderately strong repulsive effect, while the ones outside will have a small repulsive effect.
When the salt concentration of the inside and outside of a cell do not match up, water rushes through the cell membrane towards the place with the higher salt content in a process called osmosis.
Take a piece of string and tie the ends together to make a circle.