My Own preference for branded boxes is HP - but currently HP do not seem to ship boxes pre-configured with Linux.
Note that although you can't get 'free' RedHat distributions anymore, since its all GPL software, RedHat can't stop other people from compiling their code!
But then stopped using SuSE when it became rather bloated and slow (I've not revisited this ifor about 5 years).
If you're thinking of DELL, then I'd recommend a proper server (poweredge) over a desktop machine - they do different jobs - and there's no point in paying for stuff you don't need - like a fast graphics card.
I went with a small book style Atom PC for my home file server.
I would go Ubuntu just because of the community backing it and the mass of documentation around it.
There are vendors out there producing pre-configured hardware and providing support, SuSE and RedHat both offer support packages (OK, Ubuntu does too).
And when the drives go to sleep, it draws all of 16 watts of power.
I do agree with the use of RAID but then again, in my opinion if it doesn't use RAID it doesn't even qualify as a server because that should be the absolute minimum level of redundancy for any server.
You might want to have a look at CentOS - which is essentially RedHat Enterprise Linux.
You're probably going to need more hand-holding than the odd post on ServerFault.
I started off using RedHat distributions, then switched to SuSE due to ease of management.
Performance reading/writing files across the network is around 40MB/s.
Having said that, I see that Dells cheapest server is approx 3 x the price of their cheapest desktop (and running a cluster is always more fun than a single server!)
Regarding hardware, Dells are certainly cheap, IBM don't make them any more.
Currently my home system runs Fedora (the community/bleeding edge version of RedHat).
I've also used Mandriva, PCLinuxOS, Knoppix, Debian, Gentoo and others.
It's not required and only adds overhead and (potentially at least) more vulnerabilities.
You haven't told us anything about your Linux expertise or what you're experienced with but the general recommendation is to use whatever you are most comfortable and familiar with.
There's probably a Linux Users Group somewhere near you - go find them and talk to them.
It's got a CF slot for a 8GB card I run the OS off and 2 bays for HDD that is my storage in raid 1.
The one thing I would add is to install it without the GUI.
The biggest question you need to address is how you're going to get support for the system.
Ubuntu is my least favourite distribution - it just tries to be so different from a standard Unix system.
Every one of your requirements can be easily met by even a bottom of the range machine, running any Linux distribution you care to use.