The first set of parenthesis identify how you want positive values to be treated, the 2nd set of parenthesis identify how you want negative values to be formatted, the 3rd set of parenthesis identify how you want zero values to be formatted, and the last set of parenthesis identify how you want text values to be formatted.
2) Do a goto>special with all the cells you wish to look at already highlighted (otherwise it will find headings etc) and then select 'constant' and then 'text' and then OK.  Then immediately type 0 then hit CTL+Enter simultaneously (instead of just enter) and all the cells selected by goto as text will become 0.
Finally, change the Applies to for the column that has the percentages (C column: =$C:$C).
1) Just type the number 1 in a cell and then do a copy>paste special>multiply against all the numbers including the problem '0 and the '0 becomes a 0.
0 (again no quote marks) so that an NPV formula would see the 0 as a number and not text.
these problem '0s where mixed up with thousands of other normal numbers so fixing one by one would have been extremely tedious.
If you use Office 2007, on the Home tab, there is the conditional formatting button in the styles section.
You need to address all 4 types of values in order for all the bases to be covered.
Note that I do not want this formatting for the entire sheet, only for a certain block of cells.
I had a problem where i had zero's with a leading apostrophe (sourced from another reporting system) shown like this '0 (I haven't used quote marks to avoid confusion).
From there, add a new rule and select "Format only cells that contain.
If you want a bunch of dashes, just go to custom and type in whatever symbols you want it to display instead of 0.
You could also use an IF statement, but that takes up a lot more space and only works when you calculate the percentage.
Doing a replace doesn't work because the apostrophe is a special character in Excel which makes everything following text, irrespective of the cell format.
I want to change the formatting on an excel sheet so that 0's will show up as dashes for only a specific block of cells on a sheet.
Change the targeting to "equal to 0" and you can then setup the formatting any way you like.
If you do not want the zeros to be reflected as a dash then simply replace the dashes shown in the code above to be a 0 or 0.00 or however you would like them to appear.