Check whether a so called HPA has been set up on the drive; this is a reserved set of sectors, making the drive appear slightly smaller than it is, and making any attempt at wiping it without being aware of it incomplete.
You mentioned that you have the Windows 10 installation media on a USB drive.
Such a computer could behave slightly differently (usually to your advantage though) when installing an OS even after a complete wipe, since what happened during install did not only affect the local PC but stored some authorization information somewhere on the internet.
Some BIOSes offer a disk wipe option (mostly laptops, though), so it might be worth checking that out too.
If your computer(s) are already disassembled, you need to connect the drives to another computer (via USB or internally via SATA) and do the wiping there.
Use Ultimate Boot CD to wipe the drives and reset the BIOS.
If using the ATA secure erase feature via hdparm, make sure that you use a password that is recoverable during preparations (the secure erase process is two step, locking the drive with a password then triggering the erase process which will unlock the drive again) - if it becomes lost you can end up with a drive that is, to your means, bricked.
hdparm -N from a linux live system can be used to see, create and remove HPAs.
What you can do is use a zero-fill program on another computer to reset the drives to all zeroes.
If you want to "reset" a computer as near "pre-assembly specs" as possible, you need to wipe the drives, reset the BIOS and disassemble the individual parts.
Since I don't have enough reputation to comment, I'll post this as an answer.
From there, you can enter the diskpart command, then select disk 0 to select the first hard disk (use list disk to find the correct disk number).
OS licensing with some very modern OSes can be dependent on either a BIOS serial number or an surrogate serial number created from hardware specifications and/or other hardware serial numbers (eg network adapter MAC addresses).
Wiping the drives, so that they are completely empty or filled with random bits can be achieved with a bootable (USB/CD-ROM) system like DBAN: https://dban.org/ (instructions to create media, etc can be found under Help / Installation Questions).
Now enter clean all to completely erase the disk (overwrite with zeros).
The reason i suggest UBCD is because it has a secure wipe which will prevent the data on the drives from being recovered whereas windows format, you can still recover the data is you so choose at a later date.
If you press Shift+F10 in the Windows Setup program, it will open a Command Prompt.
BIOS (or UEFI, whichever you have in the computer) settings can be reset in the BIOS itself.