I'm a fan of the Watchguard product line personally, specifically for you I'd likely recommend an XTM3 product, but that might be outside your budget.
That way I was able to filter traffic after the Comcast router had done the NAT, without having to do another NAT step.
Here's a good doc on setting up a bridging firewall under Debian, but any major distro should have the modules and tools you need: http://www.annahegedus.com/tutorials/60-bridge-firewall
Can someone recommend a simple (hopefully not too expensive) solution?
We have just signed up for comcast business with 5 static IPs and have an internal private network.
online and I can't seem to find something that will easily do this.
I had the same problem, but it turns out there IS a solution.
I solved a similar situation a while back with a small Linux server configured as a bridging firewall behind the Comcast router - two NICs, one connected directly to the router, the other to my internal network.
There are literally thousands of products out there that will meet your needs and all of them have their own fan bases.
Depending on your requirements you can do what you want with anything from a low end home office product to a high end enterprise product.
Your best bet is to figure out your budget for the product and then see what you can afford.
Then all you have to do is configure firewall rules under Firewall -> Port Configuration -> True Static IP Port Mgmt, if you want the firewall.
We are a small business and I am hoping that we can purchase a router/firewall that will simply allow me to specify some external IP/port "pairs" and have them routed to internal IP/Port "pairs".
So ask Comcast for what your block of static IP's is, then configure the machine you want on this IP with the IP and the subnet mask from the router and use the router's IP as gateway setting for the machine.
Or, if you don't want it, check the box "disable firewall for True Static IP Subnet Only" on the first firewall page.
It turns out the be very simple, and the modem is fully equipped to do it.
The crux is that Comcast assigns the static IP on the LAN side (i.e.
Our old T1 modem (netopia) would do this quite easily and I didn't think it would be an issue.