So for these links we are very interested in the counts of error corrections.
But even in these systems a simple ping test is enough stress to give initial results.
Sending a good ten minutes of 0-interval MTU-sized DF pings with contents 0x0000 and a second test with contents 0xffff is an excellent way to apply some stress to simple transmission technologies.
The cost of "real" ethernet test platforms is extraordinarily high, because you're paying for those issues to have been fully sorted via hardware or clever software (eg, running within the NIC).
CRC errors mostly incremented while there is issue with physical layer even with small mtu value.
But for any link longer than 10Km you should do your own power budget: five minutes arithmetic can save you hundreds of dollars in allowing you to safely purchase a lower-power SFP).
Don't ignore small rises in error counters: even a low rate of loss will devastate TCP performance.
But then that transceiver has a fault and we replace it with a below-average-but-within-specification sample.
So sometimes packet drops are because of the end-systems rather than the transmission.
This can be simple IP-layer issues (such as a MTU inconsistent with the subnet, always a possibility when backbone links should be running with a MTU > 9000) or host performance issues (particularly >10Gbps).
However, ping alone isn't a great acceptance test for being sure there are no faults.
Ping with large packet is only to check the mtu size passing through this segment
But we have an above-average sample of that transceiver so all is well.
Lost packets -- or overly delayed packets after the first few packets -- are a clear indication that further investigation is required.
SFPs often have a feature "DOM" which allows you to check the receive light level from the device's command line.
Finally, you should be aware that PCs are a cheap but not perfect test platform.
More complex transmission technologies have forward error correction.
Interpreting those FEC counters requires understanding the physical transmission, as we're now low enough in the "stack" that we can no longer pretend that media isn't naturally free of errors.
Rising error counters of any type require further investigation.
As part of the ping test you should connect with each of your network elements on the path (hosts, switches, routers) and record the transmission traffic and errors counters before the start and after the end.
Let's take 1000Base-LX, ethernet over single-mode fiber.
So as part of the acceptance testing we need to check that light levels are within specification at both ends; and we need to check that there is a viable power budget at the extremes of both transmitting and receiving transceiver's performance (to make this easy, manufacturers will give their SFPs nominal ranges where they have done the power budget calculations, such as 10Km for 1000Base-LX/LH.
It's also a good moment to check that the reported round-trip time is within reasonableness (it's very easy for a transmission provider to provision a circuit which crosses the country and back rather than crossing the city).
It's possible that the light levels at the receiver are under the specification for that transceiver's model.
So the link appears to work under high transmission error rates, but if error rates are higher or more sustained then the FEC is overwhelmed and the transmission passes rubbish.
The link cannot restore to service even though we have fixed the fault.
This still isn't to say that the link is acceptable.