The performance can occasionally leave something to be desired, but as long as you're not doing huge file transfers you should be alright.
I use Homeplug devices throughout my house (two sets of DHP-301s).
If you're in an apartment environment though, you probably are better off running Cat5e through the walls.
That being said, I have installed a few power line network adapters for people - I cannot recommend one brand over another as even the named brand ones seem to have problems - In one building with 5 adapters, 3 Netgears and 2 unknown from eBay, the Netgears all burn out at roughly the same time and the two unknown brand ones are still going strong.
There's minimal work and you would get better performance.
For standard internet surfing, you won't have any issues.
They basically just function as bridges between your different wired areas.
The only time I have issues is trying to run multiple streams throughout the house.
So, No, I would not recommend the switch.... Also, unless you manage to find it really cheap, I think it will be more expensive than the cost of a gigabit switch/router and cable.
Sorry if I have rambled on a bit, but hopefully I have covered your questions - feel free to ask anything else and I will happily respond.
(Your actual throughput will depend on the quality of your household wiring however.)
Wait till you install one of these power socket networks in an apartment complex with cheap wiring.
For me, it's been one of those rare things that just works the way it's supposed to and you don't have to think about it.
However, Wired can be (and increasingly is by default) Gigabit.
A single stream to an XBMC or 360 is perfectly fine for me.
(Running Cat5 wasn't an option for me since I'm somewhat handyman-challenged and live in a three story home..)
Get a nice reliable router and either run CAT5 or make sure all your wireless devices take advantage of 802.11N.
Anything that follows the standard are compatible with each other.
Performance - It depends, Never had a problem or seen packet loss but the limit on speed is meant to be 189Mb/s, however I have never been able to achieve more than 110Mb/s...
I can't believe people still consider them as an option.
If you can rip up a few carpets and put it underneath, I would!...