https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=16770
Basically, I am following the steps outlined in the article from my question.
The main shortcoming is finding a FOSS program to cryptographically sign and verify a PDF document.
LibreOffice developer blog post about signing existing PDF files in LO 5.3 or newer: http://vmiklos.hu/blog/pdf-sign.html
I know that solution is not cryptographically correct, but it works for me!
For signing, there is a FOSS java app called PortableSigner that can sign PDF documents.
As an alternative, a PDF (or any other file) may be signed using a detached signature with GPG or any of its numerous frontends (such as Kleopatra or Kgpg in KDE).
Recent versions of LibreOffice also feature document signing.
I think the accepted answer details the situation best, as well as why Okular falls short.
Anyone having access to your PNG or any document where it is used, such as the PDF you are intending to embed this on, will have a perfect, infinitely reproducible copy of your autograph signature.
It offers no security at all and in fact is detrimental to it: upon seeing your scribble on a document, recipients may be tempted to assume that it is authentic and not bother to check for an actual (and legally valid) electronic signature.
The cli tool pdfisg that comes with recent version of poppler can read signatures and determine if the signature is valid and if the cert issuer is trusted.
IMHO pdfsig is a good choice to check signatures of PDF.
To my knowledge, currently none of Okular's backends support electronic signatures, although that feature has been requested a number of times.
However, until this functionality is exposed in it's API (also being worked on) and until that API is utilized in Okular, it won't be able to sign/verify signed PDFs.
So, it's been about 1.5 years since I asked this question, and I still haven't found an optimal solution for this issue.
So, I just wanted to share my current solution, which inserts a png of my image using GIMP.
But I also use a GIMP plug-in to handle multi-page PDF, outline here: http://www.zyxware.com/articles/4438/how-to-export-multiple-layers-from-gimp-into-a-pdf-file And here is the plug-in: https://www.dropbox.com/s/jzdkgv2f0jrbw6i/export-layers-to-pdf.py?dl=0
Within the last few months poppler has slowly been adding support for the nss backend.
Acrobat is, or at least used to be, a major offender in this regard—I have seen documents trivially "forged" because of this ill-conceived feature.
If you are willing to use ruby ​​look at the origami gem, here you will find an example to embed a signature in a PDF with your self-signed certificate.
But if someone can outline a FOSS solution that can cryptographically sign a PDF document, I will gladly accept that answer!