But the problem is that it is a remote hosted server with ssh access.
If you have this server in some professional telehouse, you can ask their support about some remote managment.
Another way is to enable console output to serial port and manage it from another computer.
The server is running Debian, but i am thinking of reinstalling it with ubuntu server
Better servers have remote managment (e.g HP iLO, Dell DRAC,...), which give you access to server console via Java applet.
Your hosting provider will have to go through the initial prompts, and key in networking information, but once you're to the ssh-console, you can controll the whole installation.
Last posibility - if it is VPS, you can manage it thru virtual machine console.
Another thing you can do, if your hosting provider allows it, is to get them a Debian 5.0 ISO.
I'm having a large problem with our development server, it have had a program called Webmin + a total idiot have been administrating the Linux sever.
Your hot-hands supplier will have to do evrything up to 'continue installation remotely using SSH'
Well at last I have been given the responsibility to administrate our development server.
Boot your box into the expert setup, and in the 'load optional installer components' menu, there is an openssh-server option, that will let you continue the full installation remotely, over ssh.
This link explains the procedure, with screen shots.
Beside that, you need at least boot from cd or network, to start the installation, which means you have to change boot device order.
as far as i know, there is no chance to proceed linux (or any other) installation over ssh.
FWIW, this is a bit easier + more reliable than an in-instance debootstrap, but both are doable.
And don't get me started on the users and groups :D
Witch now have resulted in the server being totally trashed, there are so many different kinds of the same program install that anything doesn’t work.
But I would like to start from scratch, instead of trying to find every single package and config the previous admin have ****ed up.
Don't try this unless either 1) you really know what you're doing or 2) the provider gives you a way to monitor to the whole boot process so you can recover from a boot loader problem.
Basically, they attach vga & keyboard convertor to your server and you can manage it over Java interface.