On all the points you listed, I did ok (exceptions below).
Can't offer much more than that unless you can add some hardware specs to the question.
(I can't post a link to Essentials because I don't have enough rep)
Every now and then, the grass is blue instead of green or some such thing.
Windows 7 Professional and Ultimate include Windows XP Mode (a virtual, liscensed XP machine.)
They also provide an Upgrade Advisor if you wish to let them check your machine...
I found that I had fewer problems than I expected, to be honest.
The only one I ran into is that Age of Empires II messes up colors.
Overall I like Windows 7 a lot, and I think you'll find that you'll be forced to leave behind a lot less stuff than you expected.. just make sure to get the Pro version, as Home doesn't support Windows Xp Mode.
Also, on networking: I had some bad experiences while running a mixed XP/Vista/7 home network; computers couldn't see each other (so much for Microsoft networking...).
But if you run Win7 64bit you will find really old games will refuse to run (you can't run 16bit DOS games on 64bit, you'll have to use an emulator).
Almost any game released 2002 and later should give you no problems.
You could check the Windows 7 Compatibility pages, I don't know how reliable they are but they come from Microsoft.
Also, if you switch to 64bit note that driver signing requirements can cause some issues, althought I've not had many problems in this respect.
For me, WinXP Mode has handled almost anything that doesn't run natively on Win7, some games being the only exceptions (I'm assuming this has to do with the game wanting to draw directly to the screen, which probably doesn't work through the virtual box.)
I do have a handful of older programs that don't work properly with Win7 64bit - Visual Studio 6.0 and my Cisco VPN client being the main ones.
Once all machines were Win7, everything worked just fine (Homegroup doesn't work yet for me, but who cares).
Windows XP works well and it is still a good operating system, upgrading is a nice way to breath life in to an old machine, however, Windows XP was designed over 12 years ago and whilst service packs and updates have made it a very good operating system, technically, Windows Vista and 7 are superior when it comes specifically to security and stability.
In general, you would be wise to seek out Win7-versions (or alternatives) of the tools you use - for the simple reason that you'll have [ more success / better performance / better security] with tools optimized for Win7.
I faced largely the same problem, and upgraded to Windows 7 Professional 64 bit late last year.
But, if your machine is an old Celeron, has poor graphics or similar, I would not recommend installing as you would get a poor experience.
This is very hard to give advise on as you have not mentioned the hardware of your machine.
My biggest issue with old games these days is accounting for widescreen monitor resolutions, not running on Win7.
I can't comment on the anti-virus tools as I completely ditched them.
(I don't see the need for Ultimate unless you need international language support.)
I can not think of reasons why the software you use on XP will not work on Windows 7 - You may have to look for updates if a few of the titles had compatibility issues, but you can almost be certain that any half descent (current) program would have released an update / compatibility tweak by now.
As for the antivirus tools - I've left the Norton and McAfee stuff behind when I migrated to Win7, and just installed Microsoft's free Security Essentials, which seems to be doing a fine job.
Since you mention you game a lot, remember that Win7 allows you to install DirectX 11 (you're stuck with 9 if you stay on WinXP).