My top tip (that I am slowly managing to teach people) is a variation of your #1:
While this is a good thing and something I would encourage, your IT department should be driving the security standards and policies.
Make sure you have examples of social engineering.
I'm giving a presentation later this week to the staff at the company where I work.
This training should serve as a means to re-enforce and educate on the reasons behind the security policies already in place.
Either case via autorun, malicious pdf's, etc it's a pretty easy way to own a computer inside a company of your choice, install a keystroke logger, etc.
Additionally, the book the Practice of Systems and Network Administration covers fundamental best practices regarding IT security.
General education regarding how (if) they are monitored
This helps them know what to look for and scares them a little to be more paranoid.
I would not suggest using download.com;  instead, users should ask IT for a program that solves their problem rather than trying to find one themselves (unless most are developers or fairly savvy).
There are a myriad of additional policies and procedures that apply to both proper development and technical maintenance within the infrastructure groups.
Depending on how many laptops you have and how you back them up, I'd include a tip about keeping the data on laptops secure.
The list needs to be short (to encourage memory) and be specific and relevant to the user.
For non-technical staff, downloading and installing software isn't (and I'd say shouldn't be) an option, they shouldn't have admin access to install software.
Your second point seems to indicate that users are allowed to install software on their computers.
If you don't have a system in place to back up/replicate data on laptops to your network, you should, and if you do have a system, you should make sure the laptop users know how it works.
Current malware trends applicable to the business or industry.
A lost or stolen laptop full of data is - at the very least - a pain in the ass.
For passwords, I always repeat Bruce Schneier's advice: passwords should be strong enough to do some good, and to deal with the difficulty remembering them you can write them down on a piece of paper and keep that in your wallet - treat your password card like a credit card and know how to cancel (change) them if you lose your wallet.
The PCI DSS examples many best-practices concerning security policies.
For Outlook, that means knowing how to display the Internet headers and what the Received-From lines mean.
I want part of this presentation to be a top list of "tips".
The goal of the presentation is to serve as a refresher/remidner of good practices that can help keep our network secure.
Risks and scenarios surrounding social engineering
You have a good start, but as others have mentioned you're starting at a disadvantage if users can install software.
This would cover end-user best practices both enforced technically and not.
Policies and risks specific to the business or industry.
For example, the average less technical end-user should not be able to install software on their workstation.
But if they are allowed to install software then its a good point to cover.
If the fundamentals are not already written and enforced by IT policy, these are issues that should be addressed before attempting to educate the users.
Don't leave workstations unlocked or company property (data) unsecured (laptops)
Even for programmers who we do give admin access to, we strongly, strongly urge them to check with IT before downloading and installing.
The audience is made up of both programmers and non-technical staff, so the presentation is geared for non-technical users.
Most honest people would pick it up and plug it into their computer to see if something on the drive would identify who the owner is.
How IT enforces the security policies technically and administratively.
I suspect there are numerous support, configuration, and malware issues within the company that could easily be prevented by policy if they can.
Many of the things you list should not be within the end-users control.
It sounds like you may be a person outside of IT attempting to educate your peers.
If there is not a written security policy document, there should be.
(Change control, code review, system standards, and much more.)
I like asking people to think about what they would do if they found a USB thumb drive on the sidewalk just outside the office.
Most dishonest people will do the same thing...but probably just to see if there's anything good on it before erasing it to use it.
After all the foundation is in place, employees should be provided copies of the written security policy and training surrounding that policy would also be appropriate.
Define what a weak and strong password are and give them some good ways of coming up with and remembering strong passwords.