Additionaly, the servers send me an emai after rebooting.
After trying a whole bunch of ways to apply updates and have regular reboots I've learned the best way is to script the updates but don't allow the updating process to reboot the machine.
You need to "hope for the best, but plan for the worst".
I've experineced multiple cases of servers either not shutting down properly or not coming back up properly when the reboot is triggered by a scripted update.
The harder part is in an emergency - how long will it take you to get to the server, identify the problem and fix it.
Finally, you'll need to test your contingency plans, and keep your infrastructure flexible so you can solve the fault in several different ways.
In that case four hours might not be enough (99.44%).
99.75% uptime is 43,092 - which gives you 108 minutes of downtime to perform any scheduled maintenance.
But unless you start cluster stuff with failovers, etc, there really is no way you can do an SLA for everything else.
Brand name servers come with proven reliability and rock solid warranties.
For example: a single non-clustered server is not suitable for a customer that wants 99.999% uptime and 24 hour on-call support and 1 hour "Return to operations" on a major failure.
Don't go higher (than 99.5) if client isn't paying for it...
You can easily combine the two operations and have a downtime each week of just the time it takes to reboot.
Yes, Windows 2003 Server is reliable and can perform very nicely.
When drafting an SLA, it's more important to agree with the customer what they expect (and afford) vs what your willing to support within the constraints of the equipment and budget you have.
I've been looking after colocated windows servers since 2000, and in all that time I can recall 4 outages caused by the firewall failing (separate hardware, 2x catastrophically), 1 DoS attack on the network (not against our servers but impacted), as well as a couple of significant scheduled maintenance windows required by the data center.
That should be more than enough, although I think it is ok to write into the SLA major maintenance (including but not limited to upgrades) planned in advance is excluded from the SLA.
You'd be better to specify the SLA for applying updates and an SLA for responding to issues that come up.
It's not technical reasonable to accept that and the customer needs to understand that.
As a base line I'd like to know roughly what sort of percentage availability I should expect from a non-clustered Windows 2003 Server.
Do the SLA as I will respond to an outage within 1 hour, but the time to resolve or work around that outage will vary as it cannot be anticipated.
If there are any alerts or I don't have an email from each rebooted server I know I have a problem.
When I wake up of Sunday morning I check my emails.
You can plan an SLA for updates, ie down once per week for up to 2 hours for instance assuming everything goes fine.
Assumptions are that the server is comfortably spec-ed for the application it's running (so it won't be labouring) and that by uptime I mean that the server is available.
What happens if you do the updates, reboot the server and it doesn't come up?
Regular monitoring and TLC on a server can keep it going for many years.
It needs to undergo reasonalbe general maintenance (security patching and the like).
Or it gets a virus, or the drive controller dies, the issues could be endless.
Minimum 99.5% (which sounds low) but that at least gives you a chance.
The monitoring system does not issue alerts during that period in order to prevent unnecessary alerts being produced.
The Windows servers themselves... other than applying the patches or service packs I can't think of any.
You'll also need to accurately calculate your availability statistics and have the calculation agreed with the customer (1 hour downtime at 2am is a different "cost" to 11am on a Tuesday).
The operating system itself has memory leaks, without even taking applications and services into account.
You'll need to incorporate all the additional equipment that is required to keep a server alive (networking, switches, firewalls, operator time, backups).
I schedule updates to install starting at 11PM on Saturday night and reboots staggered across the servers between 3AM and 4AM Sunday morning.
Windows, any version, benefits from regular reboots.