You could work with the files, read the files, and even print the files if you needed to.
To connect all the buildings we pay for fiber connections that run to each of the buildings, so we have one Internet connection and share it to all of our buildings bridged via fiber.
I'm not suggesting connecting your home to your business, but you may be able to set up a microwave link between a ISP in the area in which you live to your business.
I don't know of the pricing involve, but a microwave link could span the distance between your home (where internet access is cheap and fast) and to where your employer is (slow and expensive.)
I work for an organization that is spread out over the county in our state.
You may be able to run some numbers and show your management that's actually cheaper than tying up your computer (and the rest of your co-worker's network).
A quick search of "microwave link pricing" yielded  this.
Write up an agreement with your employer and see if you can resell your FIOS connection (or make an arrangement to do so as a business customer.)
Perhaps you could come to some arrangement with a business in that area to download your files for you, and they would be closer (and cheaper) than going home?
This may be a drastic option (and you'd need to take some precautions to separate this from your work life, since you don't know what the future will hold) but you'll have really fast speeds and you may be able to monitor systems at work from home.
Depending on how far away you are, it may be cheaper than what you're paying and you'll get a significantly faster speed, but you'll have to run the numbers and check what it'll cost for you to get a business class connection that can be resold and you'll have to deal with the phone company...not usually a fun proposition.
It's all line-of-sight, but you can get full T-1 speeds easily.
Or find another business that will do this (share their higher-speed connection to your company).
Let me know if you want more information, and I can contact some folks I know who maintain a rather extensive microwave link relay (secondary emergency data communications for first responders and such)
High speed, and all we pay for is renting the previously dark fiber and the poles on which it's run.
Are there any areas nearby that have better internet options?
If you needed to have the files on the network for whatever reason, you could just do it at the end of the day, keep a log of what files need to be transferred and throw them on a portable storage.
My solution is simply: remote desktop/other remote access application to your home computer.
Google shopping (not definitive, I know) shows the most expensive pricing to be about $28K, which has a break-even in about five months.
At $6,000 a month, you would not have to go very long before reaching break-even.
Have fiber connected from your home to your employer.
if it's for business purposes, and to/from specific places (customers, suppliers, etc), I've known companies to buy rugged external drives and use FedEx/UPS to ship data back & forth.