As you can see, or at least as I see it, the best AI architecture for this kind of behavior would be a Goal Oriented AI : it would allow me to keep expanding the set of actions characters have to advance their interest and at the same time allow me to easily create new types of important characters.
Another example : warlords could seek to increase their "power" variable by making plans to get ahead of other warlords through simple actions like giving money to a local lord to help develop his land, etc.. this would take very long to describe in great detail.
I could implement a basic system right now, I think, provided actions can fully run by themself with no external information, and more importantly no knowledge of eachother, because that would break the point of the whole system I believe.
You see, I wish to give important characters a set of actions which their AI will use to achieve goals, goals that will depend on their character type.
But I do not think this is the best approach and more importantly I'd like not to go with a hybrid if I can.
I am currently developing a nations / factions simulator on a map with in-depth resource system, population system, important characters system.. and this is where I finally met a real obstacle.
Finally, I found that some people solve this problem, or at least solve it for the movement, by making a FSM over the GOAP, where one of the state is "moving" and the other one is, basically "GOAP".
I've read about a "blackboard" system where information like what is the current target, where to move.. can be stored.
The thing I couldn't understand is how exactly you can achieve this with actions other than actions which do not require any parameters.
How do you associate it with "world state" key-value pairs ?
I have done quite a lot of research, and most of the sources I found explain the same thing clearly, which I understood : GOAP is about having a starting "world state" and through a "path" of actions, get to a desired world state called a "goal".
For example, an important character who spawns because he leads a migration wave will have two goals : to keep himself and his party alive and to reach his destination and start a new "population node" there.
So if someone would be kind enough to explain the basic concepts of implementing a Goal oriented AI, or at least help me deal with actions that require a parameter, I'd be extremely grateful.
If you want me to expand this wall of text I can provide more detail, simply ask.