It's stable, almost all important applications are compatible now.
Can you give more details on what kind of environment you are thinking of deploying this in?
My experience with Vista (half a year post-initial-release) has been flawless.
That in mind if you are going to buy vista wait until july as they will be offering free upgrades from vista to windows 7 for people who buy it after july.
We're running SQL Server on several 2k8 4Gb 64-bit machines, the only problems we've seen are with SQL eating all available memory which can be solved by setting the maximum memory option.
OTOH, if your network is still predominantly XP, you may want to stick with that and consider a complete infrastructure upgrade to Windows 7 once it's out.
For a desktop user who at least knows the basics of install windows then go for 7.
Windows 7 64-bit works fine for me on a 4Gb machine.
I don't like Windows XP anymore, the installation process on a modern machine (With AHCI enabled - setting it to Legacy-Mode is cheating!)
This seems to be common at the moment, companies are skipping Vista in favor of doing a XP => 7 update later.
If you're talking about right now for a business environment, Vista x64 SP1 is the only thing that will do what you want and is fully supported as a production platform.
If you are planning to roll out this at a workplace then i would go with vista, i belive it has reached that level of maturity and works well as long as you have a system with vista drivers.
If you can wait, Windows 7 looks good based on reviews, but there are things to consider, like the Windows XP mode which was recently announced that will enter into your decision making and may add complexity to your deployment and support.
And XP64 is completely out of Question, it's the Windows ME of x64 in my book, because of the complete lack of support from both hardware/driver and software companies.
I see no reason to avoid it, it's mostly just unwarranted hate due to bad reputation in the initial launch.
Personally, Vista 64 with SP1 (which improves the File Copy issue).