At least for now I know why those machines were disconnected from the server.
The logs gave the exact time of the issue and the time matched up with the time affected users called me about the issue.
For that, I would start by running Wireshark, or some other type of packet sniffer on the server and client, while the issue is occurring, and while you have a constant ping from the affected machines.
Then, I restarted the server because I know that works.
Came in this morning, collected network traffic just to see if there were any network process hogs and couldn't find anything bloating the "pipe."
Did you try to disable and then re-enable the network card on Server1?
I checked the network attack blocker logs and found that last week Kaspersky detected dos.generic.synflood "attacks" from the 3 affected machines last week and the affected machine yesterday.
Then it hit me: check the kaspersky logs on the server.
I would also check if those affected machines can communicate with any other machines on the local / remove subnet to narrow your issue.
I'm also going to investigate what the synflood attacks could be.
You've either got a problem with the network itself, or the server's network card.
I was only able to read through the collected data for a few minutes because other issues came up (I'm the only IT pro - one man crew) that occupied my time for the rest of the shift.
I ran into a similar issue about a year ago, my file server was not recognizing one of the clients.
The problem occurred again yesterday morning and at lunch, but this time it was just one PC that wasn't in the affected group last week.
I set the network attack blocker to only block the attacking node for 1 minute.
I'd have to agree with Mfinni, restarting any of the services mentioned, wouldn't allow/stop traffic getting to your server.
Of course now, I need to figure out the source of those dos.generic.synflood attacks.
The best you can do is determine a plan of action for when it happens again.
Given the fact that it's only some machines, and it doesn't sound like your network is internally routed, one of your switches may be crapping out or having ARP problems.
If anything, check your server for any firewall configurations.
I tracked the logs back 30 days and noticed those logs were clean of attacks.
Unfortunately, this issue is so intermittent that you are going to be playing a waiting game to troubleshoot.
Make sure you do it on the Server1 or whichever one that PC can't access.
Sounds like they aren't managed, so the next time it happens, you're going to have to do some troubleshooting while the problem is occurring to find the fault.
Went to the server, collected wireshark packets between the affected PC and the server.
If you can't ping the server, it's dropped off the network and restarting any Windows service won't fix anything for you.
When Kaspersky detects things like that, it will cut off communication with the attacking node for 60 minutes.