There are 30 or more systems in use depending on which virtual machines are currently active.
We have a mixture of Windows, Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris.
You can even assign Public static IP to your servers and input the correct subnet and subnet mask in your router so it routes your public IP subnet too.
Worse, some routers require licensing based on the number of clients - a disaster in our environment with so many virtual machines.
The OpenWRT solution would require Shorewall-lite with a separate system to compile the firewall rules.
All systems (a mixture of physical and virtual) are in the same LAN address space (10.x.y.0/24) to enable easy access between them inside the office.
Any small computer that can run Linux with two or three good ethernet interfaces (buy and add good cards if needed).
We have a block of static public IPs, 5 usable, with Comcast Business.
Currently a separate consumer grade router is used for each of the four static addresses, with its WAN address set to the specific static address and a different gateway address for each:
Sorry for such a long posting but I am getting tired of having to power cycle routers and deal with shifting IP addresses afterwards!
I am torn between buying a "professional" router such as Cisco or Juniper or Sonic Wall verus learning to configure some spare hardware to perform this function.
supports vpn tunnels (200) without purchasing extra licenses.
We use both 5505's and a 5510.  the 5510 is excellent for utilizing multiple public IP's, firewalling, routing, DMZ, Vlan's, etc.
I have seen reports that some of the newer routers are distributed with DD-WRT.
Any of the better routers that will run DD-WRT, OpenWRT or similar firmware should be able handle this.
I am looking for recommendations to replace a set of consumer grade (Linksys, Netgear, Belkin) routers with something that can handle more traffic while routing more than one static public IP into the same LAN address space.
Only router 1. is allowed to serve DHCP and address reservation based on the MAC is used for most of the internal "server" IP addresses so they are at fixed values.
It took a little while to define the firewall rules, and learn the way the Cisco applies them (zone pairs and policy maps are great, but I've not come across them before), but I think the benefits of having a simple setup will pay dividends in the long run.
You should be considering setting up a DMZ for the Internet accessible servers.
you can get a DrayTek 2950 router, supports multiple public IP addresses amongst other features.
We replaced them with a Cisco 1801 and haven't looked back.
Draytek will do all port forwarding, you can connect multiple WAN connections, can run them in either failover or load-balance mode, you can assign WAN IP Aliases (Public IP Addresses).
[Some are set static due to limitations in the address reservation capabilities of router 1.]
$employer used to have a similar sort of setup (except without the multiple routers - that sounds crazy to me!).
One obvious improvement would be to have a real DHCP server and not use a consumer grade router for that purpose.
The price goes up extremely rapidly with capabilities for commercial routers!