Hmmm I think this could have been made to work (I've actually /done/ hand MAC address assignment); however if this had been done you would have needed to buy new hardware for IPv6 and there would likely have been no overlap.
Equally, IP can be swapped out for different network layer protocols (provided it happens for all participants).
For example, you may choose to connect to your internet service using IP over ethernet, but in your internal network, you might choose to use IP over... paper.
Last comment: When you say everybody receives the message and non-recipients ignore them, you are talking about WiFi.
If your computer has a public IP address, then the L2 and L3 addresses could be the same.
Ethernet only works at the local level, between network devices connected to a broadcast network "datalink", whereas IP is a routable protocol and so can target devices on remote networks.
While there is nothing directly preventing the creation of a protocol that encompasses both layer 2 and layer 3, it would be less flexible, and so less attractive, and so unlikely to be used.
As others have explained, you need Layer 2 protocols for congestion control in your local network.
Layer 3 is used for routing and addressing between networks.
First answer: As others have mentioned, this allows you to switch L2 and/or L3 technologies and everything still works.
IP only works because Ethernet (and others) exists, in the same way that Ethernet only exists because there are physical wires to carry the traffic.
Where someone writes down the contents of each packet and physically walks it over to another machine and types it in.
The two layers you are talking about here are layers 2 and 3.
IP address and MAC addresses operate on different layers of the internet protocol suite.
Second answer: Even if everybody agreed to have Layer 2 protocols use IP addresses, then you would still have to use two IP addresses, one for Layer 2 and one for Layer 3.
MAC addresses are used to identify machines within the same broadcast network on layer 2, while IP addresses are used on layer 3 to identify machines throughout different networks.
You're getting stuck by only thinking about a single OSI layer.
On the page mentioned earlier you can find some nice diagrams explaining the protocol suite in detail.
Clearly this would not be particularly fast, but it would still be IP provided the person carrying around the bits of paper respecting IP routing rules.
Even if your computer has an IP address, it still needs a MAC address to find other machines on the same network, since every layer is using underlying layers.
Having said that, a valid question could be: Why can't both layers use the same addressing scheme?
However, if you use NATting, then your L2 and L3 addresses would be different.
Neither is reliant on the other, which is what give networking its flexibility.
Switches only send the messages/packets to the appropriate port (unless you perform an attack on them and saturate their tables).
It used to be like that when we used coaxial cables and later when we used hubs.
Ethernet specifies a family of technologies that allow packets to be sent and received between network devices, whereas IP defines a protocol that allow packets of data to traverse multiple networks.
Layer 2 in this scenario is Ethernet - from which MAC addresses arise, and Layer 3 is IP.
It's not "IP or MAC" — the routing of traffic requires MAC addresses to work: IP technology (as well as other, related and unrelated, technologies) sits on top of that.
In the real world there are different datalink protocols that you are already using two different ones (although their addressing schemes are the same):  802.3 - ethernet, and 802.11 - wifi.
The different networking layers are there to allow them to be swapped for different technologies.