I would probably go with a clustered backend right from the start.
No matter what kind of SAN you hook up, it won't matter if you can only get one HBA of throughput at a time.
You said you're using ESX - if it's v3.5 or earlier, or if you're not using the top license tier for v4, then you don't get multipathing capabilities.
If you can get maintenance windows after hours or on the weekends, then you can get by with Standard Edition, which takes indexes offline while rebuilding them.
Enterprise adds the ability to do data compression, but don't let that sway your decision.
If you are starting with around 1000 users and might end up with 5000+ users, I'd say it's a typical scale-up project, and I would defo go with enterprise edition.
If so, you need Enterprise Edition to get online index rebuilds.
If these terms make your eyes bleed, here's the short story - you might be bottlenecked at just 200-400MB/sec, which can be saturated with a dozen SATA drives.
That said, it all depends on the traffic pattern of those 1000-500 users and the service level you wish to deliver.
Rather than counting the number of users, I'd ask a few other questions.
If you're doing mirroring, then you get some slick features around corrupt page recovery by using the mirror's SAN instead of the primary.
Standard versus Enterprise will be the least of your problems.
It's not impossible to switch from standard to enterprise later either, but it will cost you some downtime, which might or might not be an option.
Are you storing sensitive data or documents in SharePoint?
If you're thinking about using log shipping or database mirroring, then look into Enterprise's capabilities.
Your SharePoint users are probably going to be storing a ton of binary documents, which don't compress very well anyway.
That encrypts the data at rest, when it's sitting on the SAN, thereby preventing someone from grabbing a SAN snapshot or a copy of your backup tapes and restoring an entire copy of your database when you're not looking.
If so, you should consider Enterprise to take advantage of Transparent Data Encryption.
Your throughput is confined to just one host bus adapter per array.