Only IT personnel have keycards that will open the door, and only the Security department has control over your keycard's access permissions.
So in the case of our team who only visited it rarely we had to get a letter from our director to access our servers.
This was a data centre which held servers for major international banks in the City of London.
My work revolves around something that is, ah, not as critical...so security isn't as tight as "Iron Mountain" or somesuch.
Then you were escorted by two people, a technical escort and a security guard.
In case of banks, these are bunker-like structures, that would even withstand EMP attacks.
Backups are stored in the server room in a media-rated fire safe insert, which is then placed inside an additional fire safe.
One data centre I know of - I didn't access it but my teammates did.
The front and rear doors of each rack are locked, and only IT personnel are given rack keys.
The place sells boxes of cabbage and oranges and whatnot, so it's not like we're in the business of handling military or state secrets...
We also keep the networking closets on all floors locked, and only members of the Facilities team has keys for these doors.
No, I did not design the physical security, nor do I determine the policy on physical security.
If it's small-to-medium company, probably will have it's servers in colocation center, if it's big corporation, will have it's own.
The entire facility is covered with cameras running on DVRs that record movement 24/7, and the DVRs themselves are secured in a similar manner.
Depending on your data you may wish to consider supervision.
This usually provide physical security means you've mentioned.
It's also typical for data center, to have at least two physical locations, to have backup in case of some type of natural disaster (flood, fire, whatever).
The server room is on the second floor of a building that uses 6" concrete slab walls.
I understand the idea was if the technical person saw you do something he didn't like he set the security guard on you to prevent you from doing whatever it was.
The third entry point requires a third key, and the door employs wire-mesh glass to prevent casual attacks, although I guess someone with a chainsaw, blowtorch, or other noisy/obtrusive/obvious means of attack would get through.
What you didn't mention is electromagnetic shielding, preventing eavesdropping (there are commercially available products capable of eavesdropping twisted-pair Ethernet from distance of hundred feet or so).
Once inside the server room, all the servers are held in enclosed racks.
Once they decided to let you in, they'd take a thumb print and hang the standard badge/access card on you.
Offsite backups are taken directly by the IT Manager, who lives in an alarmed house (and I'm sure has an on-site safe as well).
Of course it's own power supply, not only UPS, but also generators.
The initial entry point outside requires a key (and getting past front-counter employees).