Well, check the default gateway of the problem server, compare it with that of other servers in the same vlans.
Routing and firewall seems a little too high level for this issue.
Perhaps a firewall rules on the router or server itself needs to be added?
Your ping won't work, if the default gateway of the problem server is different.
Or maybe it has a custon firewall which drops incoming packets?
Doesn't matter if they are connected to the same switch or not.
In such a case, the problem server can talk to other machines in the same VLAN, but can't talk to machines in other VLANs.
You probably have a router between the VLANs, right?
So in the case of the server and lab computer, they are in different VLANs.
You say servers connected on the same switch will ping, but ones connected to other switches do not.
If the router can ping the server and the lab machine, there's (possibly) a routing issue on the server.
If you can ping other servers, I would guess routing is fine if they are all in the same network.
I would say you need to trunk your VLANs on the switches.
The OP states that a ping from the lab computer to the server on the same switch works fine, so routing should not be an issue.
Check all your trunks and make sure that the necessary VLANs are added.
If you have access on the server, check the firewall and also test the connection the other way around (from the server to the client) and see if there's connectivity.
So if one tries to ping the other, that ping has to go up to a layer 3 address first (the gateway) before the ping will respond.
Maybe the routing table on this machine is messed up?
The reason I do not think its a routing issue is because if two devices exist in different networks they always have to talk to a gateway before they can talk to each other.
I'd start from the router and establish that you can ping from there both ways.
If you run VTP, make sure you added the new lab VLAN to VTP using the VTP server.
If you can ping the lab machine, but not the server from the router, it could be netmask (maybe), it could be a faulty cable, so probably worth swapping the cable out for a known-good cable.
You say you've checked the default gateway, but is there a more specific route?
It might even be a MAC address collition (unlikely, but I have seen it, use the CAM in the server switch to see if you're seeing any MAC on more than one port).