Maybe you should try booting in "Safe Mode" to be (almost) sure it's not a driver problem.
Swapping out older hardware for newer installed hardware to see what works and what doesn't.
If you can not get into a running system off of a live CD then you might want to check out any new hardware that has been installed.
This also sounds like a memory issue, I'd give memtest a run.
Still not entirely sure what the problem was but it was solved by pulling the PC to bits and replacing the CPU in the end, despite the old one working, it just seemed to be unstable.
I suggest you to test your RAM (like a comment suggest) with Memtest86+ and if there are some errors, do the same test again, but with one RAM memory slot, then the other to detect which one is responsible.
Try booting into VGA mode and see if the problem persists, then you will have a better idea if it's a display driver or not.
Good luck and the trouble shooting and hope this helps some.
If you do end up getting a blue screen error, come back here with that information.
If so, you can disable it in the Advanced Options menu (press F8 after the BIOS screen but before the Windows XP logo appears).
Could be dodgy connections or motherboard or overheating on CPU or hard disk failure or corrupted OS install.
Are you getting a blue screen error before it restarts?
There should be an option in there that says something like "Disable automatic reboot on blue screen".
It sounds like you might have a fault memory module installed since you're dealing with an intermittent problem.
Keep using the Live CD since you know that it's a working system and can't be changed.
That's the most common problem (and most easy to solve) but this kind of behavior can can from anything.
If you can successfully boot into a live CD's enviroment then I would say that you're working with a software error and that a repair or restore of the windows operating system might need to be done.
Remember to only change out one part at a time so that you know what you've worked with and what you haven't.
Check all of these in order that requires the least amount of hassle and changing things to see if that helps
I would recommend using a live CD of some type either Linux based or a windows based one so that you can determine if you're dealing with a hardware issue or a software issue.
Or you can use the "Ultimate Boot CD" to check your material.