Even accelerating machines (that is, machines that increase their speed at every step) cannot be universal.
(This reference discusses the history of Church's and Turing's work, and argues for a separation between "Church's Thesis" and "Turing's Thesis" as distinct logical claims, then proves them both, within an intuitive axiomatization of computability.)
It is shown that the concept of a Universal Computer cannot be realized.
The following papers from Selim Akl may be of interest and relevant to the discussion:
This remains true even if the machine U is endowed with an infinite memory and the ability to communicate with the outside world while it is attempting to compute F. It also remains true if, in addition, U is given an indefinite amount of time to compute F. This result applies not only to idealized models of computation, such as the Turing Machine and the like, but also to all known general-purpose computers, including existing conventional computers (both sequential and parallel), as well as contemplated unconventional ones such as biological and quantum computers.
Such a machine will have its own Halting Problem, but it can solve the original Halting Problem just fine.
Or just take a Turing machine with an oracle for the Halting Problem for Turing Machines.
The Church-Turing thesis has been proved for all practical purposes.
While it seems quite hard to prove the Church-Turing thesis because of the informal nature of "effectively calculable function", we can imagine what it would mean to disprove it.
Dershowitz and Gurevich, Bulletin of Symbolic Logic, 2008.
Today, we take it to be precisely "computable by a Turing machine", but that rather begs the question.
Namely, if someone built a device which (reliably) computed a function that cannot be computed by any Turing machine, that would disprove the Church-Turing thesis because it would establish existence of an effectively calculable function that is not computable by a Turing machine.
There is controversy over this bound, but I think most physicists accept it.
Models of computation that are strictly more powerful than a Turing machine have been studied, take a look at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercomputation for some examples.
Akl, S.G., "Three counterexamples to dispel the myth of the universal computer", Parallel Processing Letters, Vol.
Specifically, instances of a computable function F are exhibited that cannot be computed on any machine U that is capable of only a finite and fixed number of operations per step.
Of course, we have no such oracle, but there's nothing mathematically impossible about the idea.
If Bekenstein's bound is badly violated, and there is no bound on the amount of information contained in a particular region (say, a black hole, or an infinitely fine and robust engraving), and there are arbitrarily refinable mechanisms to examine the contents of that region (say, by carefully examining the radiation emitted as a carefully constructed object falls into the black hole, or by running a stylus over the grooves of the engraving), one can suppose that an artefact just happens to already exist that codes a halting oracle.
Disproofs of hypercomputation generally assume the validity of Bekenstein's bound, which asserts a particular limit on the amount of information that a finite amount of space can contain.
As far as I understand, the "impossibility" of proving or disproving the thesis is that there is no formal definition of "effectively calculable".
Nagy, M. and Akl, S.G., "Parallelism in quantum information processing defeats the Universal Computer", Parallel Processing Letters, Special Issue on Unconventional Computational Problems, Vol.
http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.146.5402
All very unlikely, but it does show that the claim that hypercomputation is impossible is not a mathematical truth, but based in physics.
Namely, if someone built a device which (reliably) computed a function that cannot be computed by any Turing machine.
Which is to say that Andrej is right when he says we can imagine what it would mean to disprove [the Church-Turing thesis].
Akl, S.G., "Even accelerating machines are not universal", International Journal of Unconventional Computing, Vol.