Apart from the sheer fun of setting up and using a VMware Server guest for hosting a production app (these things are awesome, I use 3 or 4 of 'em internally for all kinds of services),
Depending on how much server you need, it may not be that much less than going with old fashioned shared-hosting.
I will be setting up a server which will drive a very small, information only, website (maybe 10 visitors a day) as well as provide a private webapp for the business owner.
This webapp will be used by the owner only, and will have a MySQL database backend with a web frontend.
Honestly this sounds like something perfect for a small local web host not too concerned with storage or bandwidth.
This has many of the pros and cons of both types of hosting (It's on hardware owned by the provider, and is not dedicated, but you typically have full control over the environment, right down to picking the OS.
So if you can find someone like me local to you I'd say thats probably a better option than hosting it yourself.
Ultimately this is not a choice anyone on SF can make for you - You need to speak to several providers in each space (Dedicated server, VPS, Cloud) and compare cost/benefit information between the three classes of hosting.
Give it a try, if you have a system with some spare capacity, and if you want to keep the server separated from the main network, create a separate subnet!
The one with the best overall package that meets your needs should be the one you go with.
Keep in mind that for something like AWS the inelastic cost is the number of hours the server is running, the elastic costs are data-transfer and data-storage.
Depending on your situation you may also consider traditional shared hosting like @sysadmin1138 mentioned as well (this may be substantially cheaper depending on the provider, but I neglect it in my consideration because you give up a lot of control over the environment when you go this route).
It will be relatively basic from a database perspective.
Redundancy is usually not as good as cloud services though that varies from provider to provider depending on how they implement their VPS solution).
you can move them around from computer to computer as if they were a word document.
A low-end tower computer will easily run the website/webapp.
So here's my question: Is it better to purchase the server outright or run everything through an online Cloud service such as Amazon's EC2/EBS?
There are pros and cons to each solution, but I am having difficulty deciding.
I am kind of having a hard time making a server decision.
What I am getting at is that the hardware requirements for the server are very very minimal.
The guests barely take any resources if you can keep them small.
I host sites similar to what your describing for my clients and, as long as they don't go nuts on storage or bandwidth, usually charge 15 to $20 monthly.
You are neglecting a significant segment of the market: Virtual Private Server (VPS) hosting.
I have NetBSD running on 64 megs, running with 22 processes and 0% 0% 0% cpu utilization, with 20 SMTP clients using it.