Thinking to run Windows Server 2008 R2 (Web Edition?)
Optionally, you may plan to lean on the colo a little and have them do some of the basic management for you (possibly including racking and cabling the gear, installing Windows, ongoing patching and monitoring, backups, etc).
We've looked at Dell, ABMX.com, and got a quote from CalPop (they make their own servers as they also do managed hosting).
Given that you've already chosen your environment (that specific colo), it might have an impact on your decision.
We're thinking to start with a web server and db server, both with mirrored drives.
A custom built server or something like ABMX might be great if your people are strong technically but consider the support you'll be getting.
Looking for advice for a good configuration to start with, we' looking to co-lo with CalPop in downtown LA.
Similarly, if you're planning to do all of the work yourself, I would strongly consider the experiences and skills of the people/person who will be doing the work.
Can you fix it yourself if the RAID controller dies?
Dell will be more expensive and while their support often sucks, there will always be someone there to answer the phone and if pressed, you can usually get someone on the phone that can help and dispatch parts quickly when necessary.
Price range has been anywhere from about $1200-$3300 per server.
Or would you prefer to be able to reach someone at 3am when the site is down?
In some cases you may rent space from them but choose to do 100% of the actual work on your servers (including the hands on physical stuff).
Due to the nature of the site and promotions, etc., we expect traffic could ramp up fairly quickly.
Also wondering if a switch/router is necessary or useful to connect the two servers.
First, are you planning to use the colo for hands on type work?
We're setting up a new web2.0 type site with elements of e-commerce.
It would be nice to stay under about 2k per server if possible.
Min configuration for each would probably be a quad-core with 8GB Ram.
Looking for advice on the best server configurations and/or brands that fit the budget, yet will allow us to smoothly scale as traffic increases.
My point is that if you are going to opt to have them help with some of the administration, using their custom-build servers would likely be a very good idea.