Single rank chips are usually more expensive because of the way they are built.
Some boards will not use high density with low density RAM chips or vise versa.
Some Intel chipsets limit the number of ranks that you can put into your computer.
It will be an organized information about DDR RAM in one place.
DDR3 RAM module is without error correction code function.
PC3 is spec'd to run at 1.5v; it might not work at 1.35v.
I do recommend running a memory test after RAM upgrades, though.
Other boards are ok with it, you'll be best off checking the motherboard documents.
Windows Memory Diagnostic is probably sufficient, though MemTest86 or MemTest86+ is better.
1R means the chips are all on one side, 2R means they're higher density on both sides.
For your Dell Precision Workstation P670 it is probably limited to 8 ranks in total, so with the sticks you have, you're not yet maxed out yet (2x2 + 2x1 = 6 ranks).
Generally you can mix 1Rx8 and 2Rx8, as well, though mixing different kinds of RAM sometimes prevents interleaving (i.e., it might be a tad slower).
PC3L is DDR3 RAM spec'd to run at 1.35v, but is generally also fine at 1.5v.
In general best performance is achieved by having identical chips.
Ummmmm it does NOT mean they are either on one side or 2 sides...
A memory rank basically is a block of data that is created using some or all the memory chips on a memory module (your sticks).
It must be 64 bits of data wide (error corrected modules: 72 bits).
Please, help me to finish all information about DDR3 RAM.
But if your system came with PC3 then you can probably replace it with either PC3 or PC3L.
R1x8 therefor means this module is a single-rank module, the other module, R2x4 being a dual-rank module.
If you have something to add, please add it as a comment.
A memory module can contain one, two, or four areas of 64-bit wide data areas, depending on how they are engineered.
They also allow you to put in more memory because of the rank limitation of your chipset.
So, if your system came with PC3L then it probably requires it, so don't try to replace it with PC3.
PC3L can generally replace PC3, but not vice-versa.
System sees this DDR3 module as if it were two modules on the same memory channel.
8 phisical memory chips per rank, 16 chips in total soldered on the RAM module.