The corresponding Backup##.log files are located in the "Documents and Settings\User_Name\Local Settings\Application Data\Microsoft\Windows NT\NTbackup\Data" folder.
It would be nice if a command can be run / created / backup data logs access where a backup status could be ascertained like:
I'm very happy to use a batch file to do this, as NTBackup doesn't seem to have this built-in, but I've found conflicting information on whether NTBackup populates %errorcode% properly (i.e.
Windows 2000 Backup (Ntbackup.exe) does not have a command-line parameter to specify the location to which reports are saved after a backup operation is finished.
Anyone have an idea where to find the data or how to write the program to fetch it?
You can view the reports by clicking Report on the Tools menu in Backup.
We're monitoring several (~40 so far) servers using Nagios 3, and after some massive headaches trying to check event logs and text logs and so on with active checks, I've got NSCA installed on our Nagios server.
I don't know the answer to your question, however, I might suggest just trying it.
I have this dropped into an mbox on my nagios server and then parsed by additional scripts.
The next step is obviously to have backup software report successful runs using send_nsca, and I've got this working on Windows too (from Nagios Exchange) — BackupExec handily supports running commands only after a backup has been verified, and we're after something similar for NTBackup and Windows Server Backup.
You could also write a simple script that just does a regex on the most recent log file to determine if the backup was successful.
If you set this to run after the backup, in a batch file or what not, you should always get the most recent log file.
I just install ruby on the box and threw together this script.
Just with that limited amount of info, a system check can be scheduled to execute after the backup should have finished and a Windows 2008 Server Backup status could be determined and communicated by Nagios.
if that fails to match you could consider it a failure.
In my case i wanted to keep as much data as possible so i just emailed the log and parsed it.
Does anyone have experience or ideas for getting NTBackup to report this information correctly, or is there some other solution we "should" be using?
Is it possible for you to set up server to fail it's back up and then test the value of %errorcode% ?
I hate that ntbackup has not notification options.
The backup report is saved in the profiles folder of the user who performed the backup operation.