(The speed is good - it should be close to 100baseT wired speed).
http://www.avsforum.com/avs-vb/showthread.php?t=1145636
I really think you should go with plan B, as this'll give a lot less problems later on.
There is a trade body Moca which has this page with a number of ethernet to coax bridges on it.
There are some nice connector shields out there that have coax+ethernet connections, enabling you to simply plug in a standard cable anywhere in the house.
http://www.dslreports.com/forum/r17679150-Howto-make-ActionTec-MI424WR-a-network-bridge
You might even be able to configure several in a peer-to-peer mode with fixed IP address.
However most of them don't look like they are retail products at the moment.
There's a cheap solution to your problem that nobody has mentioned so far.
It might take some time to install it, but this is only a one-time installation.
So it should be possible to do exactly what you want without spending a fortune and without causing any problems with your TV reception.
http://www.hometech.com/techwire/net.html#CX-012000188
The ActionTec that are provided by Verizon implement MoCA, which is a standard that allows IP traffic to coexist with CATV traffic on the same coax.
The only option I have seen is a product call TVNet from Coaxsys, but it looks like the product and the company no longer exist.
These routers can be configured in bridge mode, so you can use several of them - you'll need one at each endpoint.
These essentially created an Ethernet transceiver and used some sort of proprietary protocol to communicate over coaxial cable.
These devices (ActionTec MI424WR) can be bought very cheaply on eBay;  I've seen them as low as $25/each.
SO the hardware for this has got to be available, and a standard cable modem is one half of it (and I own two of the things, how about you?).
Using standard connectors completely makes it easier to ugrade/expand/repair your network later on.
The cable companies more quite high bandwidth internet activity over 75 ohm coax using only part of the available bandwidth.
This is not really a serious suggestion...just a dumb, but potentially cool hack.
also, if you ever want to sell the house, it is worth more, as it has the cables already ;)