If you do HA on application layer that layer knows best how to replicate sessions.
This is an important detail and it plays to your comment about budget - the IT 'tail' must not wag the business 'dog' by insisting on an overly complex and expensive solution to a small problem, but at the same time if the business has certain requirements of its IT infrastructure then it has to be prepared to either budget for them properly or to adjust its requirements.
The ZFS filesystem makes this possible, as outlined in this blog post.
Again, depending on the answer to "why are we doing this?
I think virtualisation has a lot of potential in improving the availability of systems, but its not a magic wand.
and if the answer is, for example, "because the business turns over $2000 per hour in online sales, so if we're off for an hour then we've lost $2000" then the question of expense and affordability can become "Can we afford not to buy something that enables or greatly improves our high availability deployment?"
But if you're talking about High Availability then you you also need to ask "why do we want high availability?"
Note that we're not talking about consumer cloud solutions here so be prepared to pay for value.
You could look at an all-in-one virtualized/storage replication solution.
The hardware side of things, while important, is very much secondary to the software requirements - its no good having a SQL database cluster that falls over with no trouble in the event of one of the SQL servers crashing if the front-end application that talks to the database chokes because it can't handle the failover.
You talk about "expense" in terms of "how much cash will this cost to buy" when discussing shared storage.
", you might need to consider this aspect quite carefully as it can add expense and complexity to quite a few parts of your project.
And two "highly available" servers sitting next to one another in a datacentre are still vulnerable to power failures, theft, etc.
If one node goes down (planned or unplanned) the surviving node will take over - including sessions.
Another option would be following the tutorial detailing a solution with Red Hat KVM.
Without knowing which DB and application server you use I would recommend:
Why don't you find an Enterprise Cloud / IaaS provider like BlueLock or Terremark that will provide the infrastructure you need.
That's a totally valid point of course, money's tight everywhere.
They will provide services like vSphere HA (more like reduced downtime than service HA but it's a cost-effective solution), Firewall, LTM / SSL Offloader, SAN (with redundant shelves), Monitoring/ Alerting, etc.