I have a requirement where there are primarily 5 roles in the system.
IF I keep all users in one table, then I cant enforce allowing nulls in certain fields for a certain role while disallowing it for other roles.
For removing fields, you can simply deprecate or remove the table.
In such a scenario as mentioned above, what are the arguments that favor storing each role's users in a separate user table?
The admin roles have a different set of fields which need to be mandatory and the general users who are not admin need to have a separate set of fields that need to be mandatory.
Also due to admin users being far fewer than non admin users, the data access for admin users at login time could be faster for users belonging to admin roles?
Whereas location is only mandatory for non admin users.
Use stored procedures to facilitate CRUD actions for users of different roles.
A non-clustered index on `RoleId will help with the performance of looking up admin users.
I am seeking opinions if anyone has encountered such a situation before and if anyone recommends splitting up tables by roles for such reasons.
Each of these roles increase in hierarchy from junior to senior most role.
Each junior role is a subset of its immediate next senior role in terms of access privileges.
I would have one USERS table to hold all users with a foreign key (RoleId) to a ROLES table.
First name, last name are mandatory for all users.
In a nutshell, its all about separating the admin role users from the non admin role users.
Each role needs to store additional information about the user that is only specific to that role for eg.
Wont I need to scan each table and find which table the user is in before I authenticate the user?
Keep the stored procedures simple if you want maintainability and readability; you don't want complex business rules in stored procedures.
if I seem to be favoring such a design as mentioned above its only because I'm playing the devil's advocate.
There is also the possibility of feilds being added or removed changes being made as which fields are mandatory or non mandatory for non admin users.
For things like grades and location, where it's optional for some roles and mandatory for others, you have two options depending on the business rules:
J1 needs to store grade and location, whereas J2 will only need to store grade.
S1 and S2 that manages J1 &J2 needs to store neither.
Would there be any specific problem if all such users are stored in the same table?
The roles and their hierarchy in increasing order would be J1-J2-S1-S2-SuperAdmin.