The first one was not what we would call 3D nowadays, but the gameplay is made for 3D.
I suspect part of it is that low-fidelity graphics engages your brain more than high-fidelity graphics.
I've had similar experiences, with games like Caesar (3 -> 4) and RPG's (Baldur's Gate -> Neverwinter Nights).
I played 1701 A.D. and, though it was fine, I didn't really get into it.
For the record, I do not think this is the result of nostalgia.
Yet I just found my decade old copy of Zeus: Master of Olympus, and it's hard for me to tear myself away from that game.
For instance, although I bought Zeus when it came out, I never played it for some reason until recently.
http://www.johndcook.com/blog/2010/08/24/overly-helpful-software/
It's just that somehow the 3D tycoon games aren't working for me.
When you want to move a 2D game to a 3D game, you face all kinds of different obstacles:
When it was possible to use 3D, some companies started "porting" their old titles to this new dimension.
In fact bar that extra dimension that gives you the ability to ride your amazing roller coaster creations, it's pretty similar to RCT2.
When developing, we lifted as many decisions as possible from the RCT2 codebase, because why re-invent the wheel, right?
When 3D was new, it was hyped and everyone wanted to make a 3D game.
That was an option in RCT3, IIRC at the insistance of Sawyer himself.
They added something to a great formula, thus changing it, without taking the effects into account.
It's like the difference between reading a book and watching a movie.
I worked on Roller Coaster Tycoon 3, and I think it's a good game!
I fully accept that this could be just me, but I can't help but notice that I have never become addicted to any 3D tycoon or city-building games but I have become addicted to many older 2D tycoon games.
I've changed companies twice since then, so I'm not incentivised to say this (beyond pride), but along with its expansions, RCT3 is still among the games I'm most proud of.
The game I'm thinking of was the old FPS "Descent" which actually required navigation in all three dimensions.
This does not magically make a game more addictive or more entertaining.
Good 3D games are games that bring a kind of gameplay that's only possible in 3D.
Although the 3D games are fine, they are actually another type of game to me.
Every time I play the first or second, I end up getting at least temporarily addicted to the gameplay.
At first, game designers were restricted to 2D, and they made games that worked with these restrictions.
Scott Cloud in Understanding Comics talks about how generic/abstract representation makes it easier for the reader to project themselves or aspects of themselves into the story.
Your brain works harder to fill in the blanks, you become less a passive consumer and more a co-creator of the experience.
Great game, but not palatable for some players whose brains just weren't used to thinking in 360 degrees.
Use 3D where it fits, not wherever you can because you can.
Maybe you just miss the easier-to-navigate isometric camera?
The bottom line: consider the benefits AND drawbacks when you decide to port your game or make a new one from scratch.