Also, why is it so common that drivers are unzipped here?
As Tonny suggested, this is partly to simplify tech support, but it's also for your own convenience.
Same for possibly system-wide required files such as driver installation files.
What are the reasons some programs install (by default or even requirement) in C:/ directly, and not, like most, into the C:/Program Files/ folder?
Many amateur developers will also hard-code paths into their software and/or installers rather than querying the environment (e.g., %TEMP%, %APPDATA%, %PROGRAMFILES%).
However, I'd bet that many programmers were lazy and just decided to plop their program into C:\ by default, just out of convenience.
I've seen a lot of Intel, Nvidia, ATI, and Xerox folders in C:/-drives, even though to me it makes no sense at all to default there, and not onto the desktop or other user-specific folders.
You won't believe how many users download something, unzip it, get a phone-call in between and 15 minutes later can't remember where on their harddisk they put the unzipped files.
When you extract the driver files to a location that's easy to find and accessible to all users, it's also easy for the system to locate the files again if you need to reinstall the drivers.
If you put that into a shell command as-is it will be interpreted as two separate arguments.
I thought it could have something to do with servers that should be kept running, but this is just a hunch based on no facts at all, why shouldn't a server program be running from C:/Program Files/, as long as all permissions are set.
By forcing the path to be fixed like this, it is consistent for all users, which makes life much easier for technical support.
This is, of course, very easy to fix by simply quoting it, "C:/Program Files" or C:/Program\ Files, however, some programs manage to screw this up.
In case the user needs to be instructed to manually run something in that folder it is convenient to be able to give the user simple instructions.
There is no real technical reason to install something in a folder directly at c:\ or to unzip a driver in c:.
To work around this problem, or to make it easier for lazy script-writers, programs are sometimes installed into C: directly.
Note that even if the program developer is diligent and escapes all his file paths correctly, it's possible that some library or some external script somewhere in the chain won't.
This question is not about specific software, but rather the reasons why it makes sense to deviate from the usual way.
The files should not be required system-wide, as they are only temporary.
Like: Open "My Computer", open C:, open [folder] and then open program "setup".
It is even against the Windows software design guides as published by Microsoft.
"Program Files"), which is why they are installed to the root of C:.
In some cases it may be more appropriate to extract them to %TEMP% or to the "All Users" account, and some vendors do exactly that.
Some programs malfunction when they exist in a path with spaces (i.e.
This is very often the case for drivers-downloads.
If you are the person handling those calls you very quickly start to appreciate the logic of putting these files directly in C:\
Unfortunately, most vendors do not clean up old files, so you can end up with gigabytes of old driver packages that will never be used again.
Some developers don't follow standard conventions because they're either unaware or too lazy to do things "right."
Programs have so many dependencies that sometimes it's easier to just not use spaces than trying to get everyone on board.