Be aware that the access point forwards frames from one client to another, so it is expected to find a lot of traffic to and from the access point.
You have to look at the signaling rates used as well.
Some wireless network cards can be put into "monitor mode" which allows you to see all that's being transferred on a given channel.
If this fails, it's probably because the card or driver doesn't support it.
All you need to do then is find the client that's sending or receiving the most data.
Make sure your version of WRT54G is supported before installing it.
http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Using_RFlow_Collector_and_MySQL_To_Gather_Traffic_Information
You can use display filters to help you, for example to filter out traffic not from your network.
Without looking at signaling rates, it's easy to look at the 7 gigabit guy and think he's the hog, when actually he only used 1/4 of the time, whereas the little 45 megabit guy used 3/4 of the time.
Note that this capture will be different than normal captures, because you will see the raw wireless frames rather than just the Ethernet payload.
Imagine you sample for 60 seconds and see that in that time, one client transferred almost 7 gigabits, and another client transferred just 45 megabits.
DD-WRT firmware for WRT54G can send traffic info to a MySQL database.
Well, if the 7 gigabit guy was a modern 3 spacial stream 802.11n client getting the top-end 450 megabit per second signaling rate, he used up just one quarter of the airtime in that 60-second sample.
You can identify the access point by its MAC address, which is printed on the access point enclosure.
Beware that with wireless you can't tell who the hog is just by looking at amount of data transferred.
Whatever solution you choose, make sure it accounts for airtime used, not just data transferred.
You also won't be able to see the payload if it's encrypted.
If the other guy was far from the AP, getting only the lowest 1 megabit per second signaling rate, he may have taken 45 seconds of airtime transfer his puny 45 megabits.
You will however be able to see the MAC addresses in the IEEE 802.11 headers.
http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Supported_Devices#Cisco
This is an extreme example and I've oversimplified it by leaving out protocol overhead and retransmissions, but the point stands.