Obviously when you hit 100% CPU use everything else is going to suffer.
The only thing I'd worry about is that Tuesday spike...Looks like you handled it fine, but spiky traffic is the worst to plan for.
There are alot of factors which could effect your server, but I think CPU usage isnt one for you at the moment.
Quite simply, CPUs are not designed to handle that well and the resultant heat within the chip itself will be problematic.
In my opinion, this question could be asked as how long is a piece of string?
It seems your graphic sampling interval is around 10 minutes or so.
I highly prefer watching the run queue size metric.
As for what CPU load is acceptable, that's not easy to answer because you need to examine both instantaneous loads as well as longer term figures.
Personally I investigate when my server's CPU remain above 50%.
And if it's topping out at 50%, then you've got plenty of spare capacity.
For this reason it's important to also monitor the CPU temperature, as that is far more significant than the load itself.
Your graph shows bursts not even as high at 50% so I think your server is in good condition, you would need to take note of how many websites are running and/if any DB's are running and the sizes of them.
There is a limit to just how efficiently that heat can be transferred to whatever heatsinking you have, so simply adding more cooling isn't necessarily going to solve the problem for a highly stressed chip.
Looks fine...You  don't want to be tooling along flatlined: that means you've paid too much for your hardware.
Remember that short spikes, even up to 100%, are not a problem provided the average is low enough to allow the heat to escape.
Consult the manufacturer's specs to determine what is good, bad or ugly.
That means during the Tuesday spike you might have reached 100% CPU load during a significant period of time (eg: 1 minute).
First off, a periodic sampling will only give you very vague information that is of little value unless it displays very high readings, which yours doesn't.
That said, CPU load, while interesting to see how the load evolves during time isn't that useful in identifying CPU bound systems.
While this will vary between makes and models of CPU in general you don't want to sustain loads greater than 50% for extended periods.
I also suggest you shorten your sampling time as much as possible, at least while you are establishing a baseline, as that will give you better accuracy.
If you don't see and significant load over 50% I really don't think you have a problem.