I'm hosting the server on my desktop with ip 192.168.1.126.
You probably do not need a port forward, as long as there is only one computer on the network listening for that port.
I am starting a minecraft server for me and some friends.
Note: Your LAN IP address may change, but you should be able to further control this through the Cisco router.
Then I tried to forward the port on both routers to my desktop.
If you only use the Linksys as a switch and access point, you shouldn't be setting it up as a router at all.
Instead, connect the cable to the Cisco router to a LAN port of the Linksys, disable DHCP on the Linksys, and set up the wireless however you want it set up.
We have a default router (default gateway 192.168.1.1 with dhcp enabled) and I have another router in my room (ip 192.168.1.2 with dhcp disabled).
I hope anyone can help me with this and thanks in advance!
but I need to forward port 25565 so my friends can join and play when they use my 'public ip':25565.
The Linksys should now be used as an access point and the Cisco router will take control of the router settings.
None of this worked and I am out of idea's if what I might be doing wrong.
I do not have a linksys handy to tell you the exact menu, but on the one I have now there are different menu's for port forwarding and port pass-through.
There's no need to get into complexities of multiple subnets; consumer routers are perfectly capable of serving as just switch+AP, without using any of their router functions.
For some reason this won't work and I feel like it is because of my home network.
Ill put 2 screenshots of both the router user interfaces so you can see how I tried.
And finally I tried to forward the port on the default router to my personal router(192.168.1.2) and then from that personal router to my desktop.
The Linksys router needs to be set up in Bridge Mode.
What you need to do is open/allow the port through the firewall.
Everything works as far as I can join and play in it when I use my internal ip (192.168.1.126),
I have tried to only forward port 25565 to my desktop on the default router.
You will have to do this on both routers if the internal router is not in bridge mode.