The decrypted and unpacked traffic is then routed to our Windows box and back.
I know IPSec is a standard but Cisco has a specific implementation that will keep you from connecting anything else then their equipements.
Just be careful as it is made for desktop clients.
Can it be done using only Windows tools, or do I need an additional free / commercial VPN software?
I'm watching this question to clarify any issues or questions.
There are no problems with compatibility with the Cisco router on the other end.
Is it possible to configure this tunnel on my Windows Server 2008?
My business partner has a standard solution for these requirements.
I have a Windows Server 2008 that has a single network interface configured with a public IP address.
Using the same IP you use for everything else will be fine.
They told me, that I will need an additional public IP address for this to work.
This will be the most reliable and simple option by far.
Cisco's implementation of IPSec is not compatible with anything else then Cisco.
Also, you don't need to have an extra public IP address.
After weeks of problems unrelated to the tunnel itself, my admin configured the tunnel to end on a separate Linux box running Openswan.
So we successfully went with option #2 without the need to buy a physical Cisco router.
It may have some annoying functionnalities such as short timeouts.
If it really is necessary, there is no problem, I can get an additional public IP address, although it will be assigned to the same physical network interface.
Be careful you may need specific licensing to do IPSec.
If it cannot be done on a virtual linux box, will I have to buy and setup a Cisco router to handle the IPSec + GRE tasks?
I assume that on my server I will have both public IP addresses and also the private IP address from the tunnel (the same that is visible for the devices inside the private network).
From my server, I need to access all the devices on his private network, and those devices must be able to access my server.
They will setup an IPSec + GRE tunnel to my server.