If you are POSITIVE that the old Ram is DDR2, and you are POSITIVE that your system worked fine with it, then you must be mistaken about the motherboard model number.
Examining the top-down image of the board, you can clearly see where the notch would go in the Ram slots, so it isn't like there isn't a notch there.
http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/difference-ddr2-ddr3-ram-technology-explained/
I may try flashing the BIOS, but it may be a signal integrity problem.
If your motherboard supports DDR2 and not DDR3, Then the new stick is not compatible.
but just buys HP computers, and uses the memories on their recommended list.
According to the downloadable manual, there are two Kingston 1333 sticks listed, but one is 1gb and the other is 2gb... as far as compatible memory is concerned.
Either both the original and replacement sticks are faulty ( seems unlikely ), or your motherboard/bios is.
You'll either need to stick with DDR2 (pardon the pun) or buy an new motherboard
always boot, or does boot but gets memory errors (membist86+ errors).
I have got various DDR3 PC3-10600 (1333MHz) SDRAMs, and the computer does not
But at the very least, there is no way that with the information you supplied that you were able to put DDR2 and DDR3 interchangeably in the same slots.
According to the product information page (which isn't always 100%) and the downloadable qualified compatible memory vendors and products... there is no compatible 1333 Kingston with that board.
However, the manual says nothing at all about the board being able to use both DDR2 and DDR3 Ram.
these were new Patriot and Crucial memories from Fry's.
You might see if there is an updated bios for the board.
A friend who used to build motherboards, says he does not do it any more,
I have experienced a similar problem with an MSI 760GM-p-23 (FX) motherboard
... there is a physical difference between the two sticks, in the placement of the notch in the stick, and thus the placement of the pins that touch the contacts.
I run the "memtest86+" memory test program, some memories have enough errors that I
That doesn't mean it definitely wouldn't work, just lowers the probability.
You can't physically put a DDR2 stick in either of those slots for the board you mention.
There are motherboards that will come with slots for both types of Ram... this is just not one of them.