However, if a PC is running a 3rd party firewall or if user decided decides to change the USER name of the pc, you're going to run into a big issue that I have yet to find a solution for.
Note that disabling SMB2 also disables SMB3 (the two are dependent upon one another).
Second, the computer hosting the share must not have a local account with a blank password.
There are two issues you're likely running into here.
You will need PowerShell installed in order to do this.
I do support work for a medium size company and I have had this issue with any Windows 7 machine primarily that have upgraded to Windows 10.
We are still waiting on the Tech to get back to us on why SMB isn't working properly.
In Windows Vista onwards, Microsoft deprecated SMB in favor of SMB2.
First, it's possible that the copier only supports the original SMB spec.
I then configured the Aficio to scan via ftp rather than smb.
The folks using the scanner don't even know we are using ftp rather than smb.
I installed Filezilla Server on our main computer and configured it to run as a service.
I really believe that Ricoh's firmware needs to be updated to work properly with the newer versions of Windows or something.
The default security in Windows is to disable remote connectivity to shares using accounts with blank passwords.
Also note that you must reboot the computer for these changes to take effect.
The only way to get SMB2/3 support would be to do a firmware update on the copier, and this is usually something that can only be done by an authorized Ricoh technician (most of these companies do not publish their firmware updates to the general public).
We even got the local Ricoh dealer to send their technician out and he couldn't figure it out.
I setup a ftp username/password with the home directory set to the scans folder.
In the end I went for the Scan to FTP option but instead of installing Filezilla Server like the accepted answer says I setup a FTP site in IIS, shared the FTP folder across the network, then scanned to that folder using the FTP user I created.
What has resolved my issue with 90% of these cases is turning off the Password Protected Sharing in the Advanced Sharing Options in Network And Sharing.
I found that you often need to enter user and password for folder on the printer itself rather than through web interface.
On the host computer, type the following commands into an elevated PowerShell prompt:
You can attempt to mitigate the SMB issues by disabling SMB2/3 support on the computer hosting the share.
I had issues with Scan to Folder (SMB) in Windows 7+ with Ricoh MP C2050.
Give that a try and let us know how it worked out for you.
I did find one workaround that may or may not be an option for you.
Looks like SMB protocol is not supported and I wasn't prepared to find a fix again.
I've spent several hours trying to get a similar Ricoh machine to scan to network folder.