This should be just as easy as junction linking the libraries, as long as you remember that you need administrative privileges to remove a folder or create a junction in the Windows directory.
It's possible to reclaim several gigabytes of hard drive, and SSD space this way This is a safe way to reclaim SSD space.
I also have zero system restore files and I cleaned up the drive using the built-in cleanup tool.
If in doubt what the selection means, simply keep it unchecked.
Yet, I still have a total of 64GB occupied by the Windows [38.6GB], ProgramData [5.8GB], Users [5.4GB] and Program Files (x86 and the regular one) [10.8 and 3.9GB] folders which leaves me with ~30GB if I want to maintain the 20% of free space.
5: Click that button and select the checkbox related to the items you want to clean up.
Items like "previous operating systems", are safe to remove.
There may be thousands... A regular hard drive cleanup might take overnight because it is much slower than a SSD..
I have used it a lot and it always works reliably.
Most 3rd party disk "cleanup" utilities are not aware of the items within Windows own Disk Cleanup.
2: When the drop down menu appears, click Disk Cleanup.
Since yours is 13.6 GiB in size, consider moving it to another drive.
All the tips I find online are either the ones I've already done or giving very little gain in terms of free space.
1: Right click on the drive in question and tap Properties.
I have a 120GB SSD with basically only the system (Win7) installed on it and yet I'm having really hard time maintaining enough free space to install one game and leave the recommended 20% of space free.
4: When a 2nd Disk Cleanup menu appears notice a button called Cleanup System Files.
6: This operation usually takes a very long time (an hour or more)-because it also cleans up the Win SXS folder which is a sort of "trash can".
The Windows Installer folder is rarely used and doesn't benefit from residing on the SSD.
(Windows Disk Cleanup will sort thru this folder and clear out the unused entries.