Virtual machine Limit (percentage) indicates what percentage of every core the VM can consume, calculated for the last 30 Seconds.
Note : VM have same cores as hardware (No limitation on any resource)
The percentage of total system resources is a calculated pseeudo-static value and it takes the number of allocated CPUs as a ressource.
I have tested the Above in VMWare also, the result is almost same.
I have tested it in various Hardware and Different VMs.
In short it is a lot 'unused but marked as used' scheduled CPU time.
I don't know why CPU utilization of Host OS is almost double as of VM.
But to dive a little deeper and see which cores are being used and by what process, we will have to break out Perfmon.
Consider a water bottle of capacity 1000ml, but the bottle is only half full (500ml).
CPU Utilization is basically the requirement divided by capacity.
Percentage of total system resources is a calculated value based on the amount of allocated CPUs and the maximum limit set.
This is a percentage of the amount of allocated system CPU so 10% here would be 10% of all 16 cores.
Relative weight is used by the processor scheduler to determine which virtual machine gets preference for CPU calls.
The typical first approach is to log into the Hyper-V host and open up task manager.
"If the bottle is half full the utilization percentage of the bottle is 50%"
In virtual environments, each (v)cpu cycle can (and will) be atached to another phy core, so tracking 'a core' is not a valid methodology.
This is a reserve that the host will keep for this virtual machine.
I am using Hyper-V in Host OS Windows 10 Pro and virtual os is Windows Server 2012.
Truly understanding Hyper-V virtual and physical CPU usage first requires us to dive into a little bit of theory: The amount of virtual processors (capacity) available are determined by the number of physical cores available.
Understanding CPU Utilization is a bit more tricky then looking at the task manager.
This limit or cap is across all the allocated CPUs.
I am using only One VM at a time to check the CPU Utilization of VPS with respect to HOST OS.
I am using only one Running VM at a time and there is not limitation on any Hardware resource.
They Hyper-V management console is great for getting a high level overview.
When running virtual servers in Hyper-V, there is often some confusion when determining how much CPU is actually being used and where.
It means I can only use 50% of CPU of HOST OS (Hardware) using Hyper-V or VMWare ?
This can hopefully be understood better with a simple example:
Each virtual CPU maps down to a physical core (through VT, for example).
VMWare call this "shares" and it can be set in advanced options per VM.
The simplest way to monitor "real" CPU usage, is to look at the Hyper-V management console, not Taskmanager.
So as an example, if you have a 4 socket server where each processor has 8 cores, this will present 32 logical processors.
This is a deceiving number since it is not a percentage and the values have to be between 0 and 10 000.
A VM with a higher weight would get more CPU time than a similar spec VM with a lower weight.
Also stop using all your phy cores 1:1 as vcores, as this will bring a lot of overprovisioning expenditure from your host.
As a result you will be able to allocate a maximum of 32 virtual CPUs to a virtual server.
Putting a 32% load on the vm, could show up as 64% load ( 1% * 32 + reserve + overhead per core).
Seeing 10% usage here would equate to 10% across 32 CPUs, or if we work it back to the amount of resources allocated to the VM it would be 20% across the 16 VCPUs.
The requirement to fill the bottle completely is an additional 500ml.
As shown in above Image, Virtual Machine CPU usage is only 37% whereas Host OS Cpu Usage is 68%.
Here most people are surprised to see that their CPU usage is minimal, this despite the indication that the VM’s CPU’s are 100% utilized.
The CPU usage column is representative of the host’s total CPU resources.