Another thing to consider would be a full-disk encryption solution so that if your machine was lost, stolen, or seized you would have a litte less to worry about.
of course, you should pay attention to the legal issues of doing this
Unless they are activists, your friends aren't likely to be bothered by the government.
Your friends might want to consider what the Chinese government might do if it finds them evading the firewall.
encrypted vpn solution --> either pptpd+mschap or openvpn; all traffic goes through this tunnel
Your friends have to balance the desire for private communications against the possibility of getting caught and the likely consequences if they are caught.
Something like Hamachi would be pretty easy to setup.
I'd advise not doing any of the above and just hiding in the noise.
The Chinese court system doesn't work like the US or European courts - it's quite heavily influenced by whatever the government wants it influenced by.
They have looked at two companies for doing this: MailVault (for encrypted email) and MetroPipe (for secure proxy).
I don't know why your friends are travelling, but if it's just for tourism, then they may be better off NOT to try to do any of these things, for fear of being falsely accused of espionage.
As Michael said, they'd be better not trying to do this.
Regimes that put up things like the Great Firewall aren't generally very understanding to people who evade their repression.
My first thought is to set up an encrypted proxy for them to use for internet browsing and Skype.
If the Chinese government has set his firewall correctly, I doubt they would let your friends access sites allowing them to evade it.
I would just use a VPN connection for everything I did while I was there.
Also, how can they be sure they are using the encrypted proxy, so they don't accidentally browse with out it?
And if they did allow, they probably monitor those kind of addresses.
Does anyone know more information about these companies?
I have some friends travelling to China, and they would like to get email, use Skype, and browse the web without the fear of the government looking over their shoulder.
Perhaps they could also use PGP for sending email.