The backlight on the LCD draws quite a bit of power.
I am a college student and I use my laptop in lectures to take notes or (in the event of a boring lecture) work on assignments for other classes.
Many OEM manufacturers will include some custom ones, but there are usually three included in Windows 7 by default: Balanced, High Performance and Power Saver.
It's a unit that describes the available current at the rated voltage for one hour.
With only vim and a web browser open, I still only get about 4 hours of battery life.
One of the first fixes for laptops is adjusting the screen brightness.
If you have done all you can to improve your battery life but it's still not acceptable, replacing it is just a matter of getting the correct model.
Rule of thumb: if your battery life doesn't improve after your usage has improved, then it's time to replace it.
if the battery is removable check the part number and see if someone makes a larger battery for it.
Always rely on what the manufacturer says is compatible.
You can customize each power plan by clicking "Change Plan Settings".
Third party manufacturer batteries may work, but the most you can rely on is customer reviews in that case.
From there look up replacement parts, and it will list which battery models are compatible.
Disable wireless that you're not using (blue-tooth, 3g, wifi).
In Windows 7, "power plans" are a pre-built group of settings that determines how your computer manages it's power consumption.
Turn off bits of your laptop, turn down the screen brightness, make the hard-drives sleep after short periods (assuming you're still running a disc based system).
I have two batteries for my laptop and simply swap them out when I need to keep going...
Your next step is to evaluate your power settings.
You may find that your laptop is using High Performance and simply changing it to Power Saver will improve your battery life.
More advanced options are available in the "Change advanced settings menu".
In Windows 7, it's in the Control Panel > Hardware & Sound > Power Options.
Keep in mind that lithium batteries tend to lose their ability to hold a charge over time.
Keep in mind that some manufacturers like Lenovo only like their own batteries and will complain if they aren't the genuine article.
If you are already using the Power Saver plan, switch to it.
What do I need to know to buy a better battery for it?
In layman's terms, the higher the mAh rating, the longer your battery will last on a given charge when it's new.
By default, it will configure your power settings for the following:
On your computer's manufacturer website, you can usually search by your model or serial number.
Make sure you're not using the GPU (turn of the effects in Windows).
Make sure you're not running needless services, run your browser without heavy plugins (include a flash/ad blocker).