Many game development companies are less formal in terms of workplace attire than other types of software development houses.
And be sure to act very polite and formal as well and don't be opinionated at all, which you can usually get away with a little at a software company so long as you are somewhat inline with the opinions of the locals - and if you are not, then maybe you should avoid working their anyway.
I just wear a nice dress shirt with a solid color, nice pants and dress shoes.
You don't get hired based on what you wear, so wear the standard interview gear (e.g.
For government work or trying to get a contract with a fortune 500 company you need to wear a dark, conservatively cut suit.
This is universally accepted by all companies and dressing otherwise is running the risk of "it depends" on company.
Just like for any other job, dress as you would like to dress every day if you get the job.
I never wear a tie for a software or tech company and no one ever shows up with them for interviews in the places I work unless they are from China or something like that.
I want to show that I'm serious about the job, but that I understand the culture, too.
Not to mention they are only able to judge that within their own abilities.
And not the abilities of the best programmer there but of the upper management who are usually a whole different ball of wax compared to their top tech guys.
You will look and feel horribly out of place in anything else.
You don't have to be completely suited and booted, but you should at least make an effort to wear an ironed shirt and some smart trousers.
Personally, I feel that you should always convey a professional image.
And that is how everyone else seems to show up as well.
It does depend but the answer is very specific to the type of interview.
You don't know who is going to interview you, and it's not always possible to find out exactly how people dress at the company you're going to, so it's always best to paint yourself in a positive light.
For example, I know that one place at which I will be interviewing soon has a predominant workplace culture of jeans and polos or t-shirts.
You can't complain you have to wear a tie, if you wore one during your interview.
Regardless of whether you have a small or large games company, even if the culture is to work in T-shirts and jeans, like it is as my place (and many other games companies), first impressions count.
There's probably some places that won't care if you are less formal than option A) but I would not push my luck.
People are not so objective as that even at the best tech companies.