For Linux and Mac there are additional guides linked on Google's page, so it's best to follow through there.
So, there's an alternative approach that doesn't rely on navigating the registries through Regedit.
Yes it will disable globally but in another location the same extension will use a different list so enabling different extensions.
This basically keeps all the extensions in your user and you can manually edit them for each individual computer.
The best way to do it that I found is to go to chrome://policy/ in a new tab and tick "Show policies with no value set"; this will show all available policies that can be set using the Group Policy editor and each of them link to its documentation.
If you are not sure which is the real and your new copy, look under the ID tag for Loaded from: {Path_To_Your_Copy}
Thanks again to Harry_Pootha for his answer that helped me find all this and use it.
I was going to comment on Harry_Pootha's excellent answer that helped me a lot, but I am not very active here :)
You could install the extension you want as a Local extension.
At https://support.google.com/chrome/a/answer/187202?hl=en, they offer a step by step guide on how to apply a large range of admin policies to Chrome, including the blacklist policy
Well if you're using chrome at the same time on different machine (let's say on your desk you have a mac, a laptop, a desktop maybe with some virtual machine running) it could be a mess...
Note that, in the GP editor, the policy you're looking for uses the long name found in said documentation.
Maybe instead of disabling killing the processes but I'm not sure it is even possible to do programmatically.
Although I have to admit the previous answers were more interesting, this resolves your problem without much tech-savvyness.
Thus, set "Configure extension installation blacklist" to Enabled, click Show in the policy setting GUI and add there the desired ids.
You can easily find extension ids by going to chrome://extensions/ and ticking 'Developer mode' in the top right corner.
The last step is to actually enable a policy and specify its contents.
I say Disable because there is a bad side to this approach and that is you lose automatic updates and you will need to repeat the above steps over and over again every time it updates.
Here is a simple solution (considering you have 19 extensions and only have a problem with one or two): after first install  in each individual computer:
Well probably an handy extension that list the installed extensions (https://github.com/rbrahul/chrome-extension-manager) and allows you to pick the one that you want to disable and keep that list on the browser storage would work.