I can't wait to start pushing this puppy to the max!
I have used Raspbian which is general purpose Debian based distro and added XBMC to it with this guide - http://michael.gorven.za.net/blog/2012/08/06/xbmc-packages-raspberry-pi-running-raspbian
All my 1080P media is stored in iPod-compatible format on a server, which happens to also be compatible to the Pi.
Also, after closing the menu while the video was still playing in the background, I have noticed a slight increase in the playback speed as if it were trying to catch up, but that might just have been because of the amount of time I had spent in the menu while troubleshooting a sound issue.
Like Stu, I'm using XBian on my Pi and have a few different computers networked to it.
In case you are curious, I had it plugged into the wrong input and then not plugged in at all.
The only problem I am faced with now is DVD playback and figuring out how to get the samba "shortcuts" to the proper sections, if that is even possible.
All I did after that was hook it to my TV with HDMI, plugged in the SD card and then the power adapter and voila...instant media center.
I have yet to try any 1080p content but that's my next step.
I have very positive experiences with OpenELEC on Raspberry Pi.
Setup was as easy as downloading the .img file from xbian.org and then writing it to SD card via Win32DiskImager.
I use network shares from my main computer, and my roommates, to watch videos in the living room.
I have three computers networked that are all accessible via XBMC running on XBian.
This thread is a little old, but figured I'd give my 2 cents anyways.
I was quite unhappy with XBMC, so I wrote my own lightweight media centre around omxplayer.
After hooking up the the RPi via HDMI I was able to use my TV remote to navigate through menu's, I didn't have to change any settings...it just did it out of the box but your mileage may vary.
All-in-all, I think this was a wonderful investment that beats my prior investment in a PS3, that I don't really use anymore, hands down.
I don't have a WiFi dongle to test out the wireless, but my wireless sucks anyways.
I recently set up my RPi with the intention of using it as a media center.
I had to adjust my screen alignment, but I am also using an older TV.
This is best guide for getting XBMC to work on Raspbian.
It had no issues whatsoever finding files from my three networked computers and was capable of playing high quality 720p video over the network (wired, not wireless) without any glitches whatsoever, No lagging and no other issues.
There are only a couple of places where I can say I have experienced "lag".
When trying to access the menu during playback it takes 3-4 seconds before it displays, but that's trivial in my opinion.