Due to the simple static web page you could probably get away with a small/medium workstation, even perhaps a laptop...  You could probably even get away with a Virtual Machine that sits offline until you need it...
Why not just provision a single workstation/server with IIS displaying a single static maintenance page?
You could set up a DNS failover solution (DNS Made Easy provides this option), but depending on your TTL settings, people won't likely get the updates except for longer outages.
Basically, if you need to take an entire ASP.NET site offline, you can place some nice message in that file.
ASP.NET essentially shuts down the site, unloads it from the server, and stops processing any requests to that site.
That is, until you delete the app_offline.htm file - then things will continue as normal and your ASP.NET site will load up and start serving requests again.
Your best bet for instantaneous failover is to purchase a small hosted server somewhere, with a static web page on it, and then use a tool (like heartbeat in linux) to monitor when the main server is unavailable, and have the secondary server take over its IP address.
Well, I don't know if this the optimal solution, because it is adding complexity to your solution: you could place some reverse proxies (squid, MS ISA, ...) in front of your web servers (outside your network) and run the requests through these servers.
Seems like everything else is more work than necessary...
Then, any new requests to a URL, any URL, in that website will redirect to that file allowing you to do maintenance to the site, upgrades, or whatever.
When you need to bring the web servers down you just bring up the maintenance workstation and make sure it responds to the incoming web requests...
So, when you're planning for down-time, you simply have to change some rules to show the static "sorry, we're offline" message.
Of course, you would also need an external server to host the maintenance page.
An offsite reverse proxy that points to your live site could display a default page when the backend site is not available.
If you have an ASP.NET web application site, and you place a text file named "app_offline.htm" in the root of the site, all requests to that website will redirect to that app_offline.htm file.