A couple of PCs infected with an "email the address book" worm can be enough to trigger a blacklist.
GENERALLY SPEAKING, it is fruitless to regularly check this.
You should never block purely on this as it can lead to a lot of false positives.
False positives are rare, and they can usually be dealt with quickly when they happen.
This includes making sure you don't have relay enabled and disabling outbound SMTP from other than your mail server.
Make sure recipients know to contact their own provider if mail is not being received, and then deal with it when it happens.
http://www.anti-abuse.org/multi-rbl-check/  is one
The extent to which they do a good or bad job (false positives, false negatives, etc.)
Keep A/V running and up to date, including inbound and outbound mail and web browsing.
The administrators of the domain doing the blocking are responsible for providing spam protection service for their users.
Although if an ISP is blocking you purely on RBL check then they need educating.
GENERALLY SPEAKING, it is fruitless to regularly check this.
False positives are common, and you'll never keep up with trying to deal with them when they happen.
Finally, you should make sure that your users aren't sending spam!
The administrator of the domain actually doing the blocking can usually tell you the fastest way to get unblocked, or can add you to a white list for their domain.
You also may be able to tell from one of the notes or headers on a returned (blocked) message.
There are too many blacklists and they come and go.
Additionally, you need to do the basic things to minimize getting blocked in the first place.
Although this is pretty much the opposite of what tomjedrz said, I agree with his "soapox" comment in its entirety.
There are too many blacklists and they come and go.
Make sure users know to contact you if mail is not getting delivered, and then deal with it when it happens.
It's also relatively easy to remove your site from the RBL through www.spamlab.com
www.dnsstuff.com is paid for but it does a lot more besides checking for blacklisting, which indeed it does.