At a minimum you should be using CAT 5  cable, this gives minimum error rate for 100BT and lower.
I had the same thing once when I used a dual IDSN cable instead of a normal LAN cable.
But when I got a few rugged cables  (and it would have been a specialist company making them), I found those were very reliable.
When you have a long cable (61 M is long) there is a good chance it will run into problems.
It only worked if we had a hub or pc at either ends, and the cable could not be made longer by just extending it with a plug and cable.
Anyway, check the cable path and make sure the cable is not running parallel to power cables or next to anything like a florescent light fixture.
I have had a cable of 30M be faulty, and a cable tester (albeit a cheap one) showed it as OK / didn't detect a fault.
http://www.ciscopress.com/articles/article.asp?p=31276
I used to get cables from a company that specialised in cables, but I just found them bad quality!
If it remains close to a power line for a long enough distance, the Power line will induce capacitance and voltage onto the ethernet cable.
If they were not made properly, there could be cross talk (normally be discovered by a tester), or maybe they are not seating properly in the jack.
But more likely is that the cable is running parallel to other EM conductors (Power Lines).
With Gig-E widely available, CAT 6  cable is needed for the length run you state.
There are a number of issues that could cause problems with an ethernet cable.
It may be that longer cables can be trodden on and that makes them less reliable(by damaging them).
Cat 5, 5e and 6 cables are twisted pair, 8 strands of copper twisted in pairs with the four pairs twisted slightly around each other.
So, maybe as a rule of thumb to get a quality cable, you could look for rugged jacket ones from a company that makes the rugged jacket ones, if you're willing to pay the price for such cables.
If your connection is 100BaseT it is shorter than 100BaseTX
Here  is a link to Cisco's explanation of cable types.
Pulling that cable to put it in place can stretch the copper inside (not very likely, but possible).
This is highly noise resistant, but if exposed to a strong signal for long enough, the signal will intrude.
The length of an ISDN cable is shorter than a cat5e UTP Cable, but they look exactly alike.
It could be that you are using an incorrect category cable.
Florescent lights were notorious for this, but they have gotten better.
The kind of ethernet cables that I find to be reliable, have been one with a rugged jacket, they are expensive, and maybe a better quality build too.
On top of that, the connection itself matters as well.