It's still a resource which combatants, which is reduced by combat, and when it hits the magic number you fall over.
Leather armor takes 6 hits for example, so if you get hit for 7 points of damage, the result is 7 - 6 or 1 point of actual damage.
The New World of Darkness Storytelling System combines to-hit and damage in the same roll.
Rolls use a pool of d10s of a size appropriate to the difficulty of the roll, and each d10 which rolls 8 or above is considered a "success" on the test.
The "successes" on that roll are equal to the number of points of damage taken by the target.
Table top games are inherently turn based giving players plenty of time to make such considerations.
If characters change in ability during the course of a fight the player needs the time to adjust to their changing status and react accordingly.
Overall it is meant to be a very simple game that can be picked up very quickly and played by your average group that can scrounge up a bunch of 6 sided dice.
And for that matter, such a system isn't very different from hit points.
The damage dealt to them is inflicted as a DC which they must beat on a toughness save.
Presumably at some level of penalties, they would be considered dead/incapacitated, but you don't actually spell that out.
Bigger weapons get more dice, so a great sword user rolls 6 dice and adds them up, but a quarterstaff user gets just 2.
The first entity to land a hit not only pushes their opponent towards death, but limits the opponents ability to respond.
It's pretty simplistic and designed for beginner gameplay, but you might check out the combat system used by the old D&D era pencil & paper game Tunnels and Trolls.
If both sides of a battle reduce their ability to hit/damage as they injure one another you may get to a point where both of them are constantly missing each other or doing such little damage that they fight to the equivalent of a standstill.
If your combat resolves in real-time the effects of a degradation system can be lost of players adding confusion instead of a layer of strategic thinking.
I recommend against this; it can suck when getting hurt makes it easier for you to get hurt.
If you have armor, it just automatically blocks damage below a certain amount.
Your idea reminds me a bit of Mutants & Masterminds, a d20-based (albeit heavily modified) superheroes game.
There are three types of damage (bashing, lethal, and aggravated), but regardless of the type of damage, the character starts getting penalties when she has 3 or fewer "hit points" left.
For you how many dice you get is based on your weapon.
In addition to your weapon dice, you get modifiers (additions to the dice roll) based on your attributes.
Characters and enemies don't have hit points, they have toughness.
One pitfall to look out for is whether the penalties from damage will affect the target's defense.
Tactical Consideration Time Available to the Player
This makes it almost impossible for the loser at the beginning of an encounter to rally.
This takes some feeling of agency away from the target, as she doesn't get to roll to resist getting damaged, but it makes combat a bit faster in tabletop: a single roll (single handful of dice) determines damage, and if you're repeating the attack the modifiers remain the same.
Basically, you and your opponent get a certain number of 6 sided dice.
The biggest issue with degradation of skills/abilities when damaged is that you have potential for a feedback loop.
One oversight with your system; unless I'm just missing it (possible), you don't actually detail how someone is defeated.
been a while), they take a -1 penalty to further toughness save.
Instead of dying when you reach a certain threshold, if you ever fail a check by a certain amount then you drop.