I also checked that 2 services are running (don't remember their names but they're related to running apps with different privileges).
Path is correct and admin account is fine, still no results.
I have no connection to them, but I've used their tools for numerous years.
Using a program to store credentials is going to be bad no matter how you look at it.
(Since you said the account is fine I doubt that is the cause in your case but including in case other people need to know it to)
More detail is needed about the program or files/folders that are being accessed before a good recommendation can be given.
the runas UID hadn't fully logged onto the machine previously) it wouldn't work correctly...
So, I have a client that needs to run a software with higher privileges but the user works with a limited account and I'm not willing to give him the password for several reasons.
What happens is that it asks for password the first time, but nothing happens after inserting the password.
It's from SysInternals and part of the Sysinternals Suite located here on TechNet.
This tool will list an insane amount of information that all processes are doing on the machine, (you can filter the data).
Your best bet since you don't want to give that person admin access will be to grant them specific access to the files and folders that the program is trying to use.
When I see that behaviour it does give an error about account restrictions though, it wouldn't show the error long enough for a human to read if you are running from a shortcut but would keep the error up if running from a command prompt or powershell window.
Files, folders, threads, networking, registry, and profiling events are all monitored by the tool.
Even in the event that it does tokenization, it's possible to execute other commands as the administrative user if they "pass the hash" as they say in the security field, (tokens are not encrypted/decrypted as far as I can tell, so they were separated on purpose; and even if they are/were, a user can decrypt them).
The only thing I've found that seems to cause what you are describing is if the Administrator account doesn't have a password set then it won't launch that way, the account has to have a password and you have to enter it, you can't just leave it without a password and hit enter when it asks.
I was looking for a way to let the program start without prompting for admin password, and I ran into runas.
We found that if the runas profile wasn't fully loaded (i.e.
Alternatively, you could use a virtual machine or have another desktop that the user can remote into so that they can have access to just that and not the system they're working on.
If you'd like to see what files and folders a user is using on Windows, you can use the tool Process Monitor.
Of course also make sure that the Administrator account is enabled (it isn't by default) and that you (or your IT department if it's a company computer, not your computer) haven't added any GPO based or other restrictions to the Administrator account being able to launch things.
If the user is capable of getting any part of the stored credentials, then they're capable of decrypting the password, (HINT: they will be able to access them or else the program wouldn't work), unless the program uses some tokenization.
The program would just not launch, no matter how many times I run the command.
If you grant them access using the Security tab in a folder's properties box, then they might be able to run the program without admin privileges.