How many tens of thousands of dollars a year is that?
My guess is that the contract is legally unenforceable because you can't make a binding contract to do illegal stuff.
You are a company with income sufficient to (I assume) cover your overheads and also pay enough wages to two staff to be their sole income.
It sounds like your game is online, a la Pokemon Revolution Online or something (maybe it's actually that?
The surest way to get noted by Nintendo is to announce your product, which is essentially what you would be doing by asking them to license you.
Specifically, you probably need an IP/Copyright lawyer.
If you don't close your game down (and quite possibly, even if you do) they will sue you into the dark ages.
Thanks to them, and to my project, I've made incredible progress as a developer, designer and just as a person in general.
From my fairly uninformed point of view (CS background, took some law courses in uni), I'd say that in your current state, Nintendo would certainly have no trouble shutting you down if they wanted to.
But, as with all things "fan-game", there's always that looming grey cloud of "will a C&D arrive tomorrow?"
If we do get shut down, we're going to have to seriously struggle to put our lives back together.
It's been awesome, well-received by players, and I'm very proud of the community we've built.
Therefore I would focus more on risk mitigation, rather than licensing.
This answer is based purely on common sense, I have no experience with Cease and Decist procedures.
I think what I want to do is to reach out and ask about some kind of licensing, but I don't want to draw too much attention.
So I'm trying to figure out what options I have, if any.
But, all that being said, we're still unofficial, using intellectual property that doesn't belong to us.
It's also worth noting - if they decide to go for you at some point, they could potentially take everything you own, depending on damages, etc.
I'm not looking for Pokémon GO levels of attention, or even Magikarp Jump.
Just some way of having actual "permission" to do what I'm doing.
Add me to the chorus of "You need a lawyer" but with an extra reason.
Now, I've taken some steps to ensure we're as respectful as possible towards Nintendo's property:
But that doesn't mean they can't sue you: it just means they shouldn't win.
You need to seriously consider at least these two things:
I don't know how much traction you have - if your peak online player count is something around or below 5000 they're probably not likely going to notice you for some time, but if you grow beyond 15k online players you may have some legal trouble ahead.
(Our single server would melt either way - I'm working on it!)
And any insights or advice besides that would be helpful too.
Your income comes from your paying customers, with whom you have a contractual relationship to supply a service.
Based on the number of legally licensed pokemon games that I have seen around, I would say the chance that they reject you is (much) closer to 1 than to 0.
My friend and I quit our jobs to work on this game full-time.
The biggest thing here is that I want to give back to Nintendo.
For the past 8 years, I've been working on a Pokémon fan-game.
I don't want to lift my head over the parapet only to have it blasted off, you know?
As mentioned earlier, my biggest fear is that one day they'll shut us down.
When Nintendo find you, they will demand that you stop.
So for now, the game has mostly been kept "under the radar", with basically zero marketing and only word-of-mouth of players to keep it populated.
I expect the answer will probably be along the lines of "IANAL, get one", but what kind of lawyer would be best?