Various vendors implement auto-neg differently and not all NICs will play nice.
Some network card / switch combinations don't autonegotiate successfully; I had trouble with a cheap realtek card which could consistently crash an HP switch.
Might be interesting to check what's connected to the ports that stay half-duplex.
Do you have another switch you could try in this one's place?
If the switch and clients are both rated at 100mbit/full but are negotiating at something lower, then you have a problem.
If it doesn't increase, try switching ports and power cycling the switch and the PC.
Have you tried bringing the switch into the same room as the PC and connecting with a short, high-quality ethernet cable?
Depends upon the switch, the NIC's and the OS being used.
In my (admittedly limited) experience, cheap consumer-grade switches (even from "name" brands) cannot run at the full capacity implied by their number of ports and advertised speeds.
Different patch levels of Windows can sometimes cause problems as well.
I would try troubleshooting the connections by unplugging all cables from the switch, except for one that is negotiating to half duplex.
Sometimes it's best to nail the port configs at the switch.
It sounds like the switch is inadequate for your needs.
If the problem travels, then try replacing the cable or putting a different client on the cable to see where the problem is.
There is no good reason to suffer with half duplex.
An unmanaged switch needs the clients to be configured at auto/auto (speed/duplex) unless the manual calls for something different (which is extremely rare these days).
Is it consistently some machines that have the problem?
It isn't difficult to get a decent 24-port managed switch for $150-500.
See if the link is able to increase to full duplex.
If the above troubleshooting ends up with random results then you are back to a bad switch or you have some external interference (like cable running over fluorescent light ballasts).
They might be a different brand to the ones that go full-duplex.
I would start first by moving the clients between ports to see if the problem travels between ports or stays at a particular port.
If the cable is cracked and noisy, autonegotiation may back off.