Other buttons seemed to stop working because the left button gets "jammed".
Sometimes it would be severe, sometimes barely noticeable.
After playing around with Ubuntu Tweak, one of the menu options, "Enable Metacity's compositing feature", mentioned that I had to manually disable visual effects in appearance.
Finally, I stopped using the mouse completely, and switched to a wired trackball that had never previously given me any problems before.
However, it has never happened again ever since I changed my touchpad setting.
After looking around online for some time trying to come across a solution that worked for me, I stumbled across the post above about using metacity --replace.
After restarting with the other mouse plugged in, it worked fine.
BTW, I'm using a wireless Logitech trackball on Ubuntu 10.04.
Happened to me while experimenting with a graphics API (vulkan).
Clicking would sometimes register as a left click, sometimes register as a double click, and many, many times it would fail to register at all.
I deactivated the tap-click of my touchpad, and now the "real" mouse never stalls.
From the bug mentioned by Joe above (emphasis mine):
So, based on that, I was pretty certain that Compiz was the root of my mouse issues.
I've had, perhaps a similar issue, thought I would chime in on what I did that seems to have worked.
If you are running the gnome variant or the new unity that used gnome as the default:
Dragging and dropping and copy and paste became almost impossible.
It would happen to my ubuntu 10.04 every now and then too, and it only worked again after I clicked the touchpad button.
I don't know if this will be a permanent solution or if it will start giving me problems again, but I thought I'd mention this solution.
So, after disabling Visual Effects (System>Preferences>Appearance>Visual Effects then select None), the mouse is suddenly working again.
I assumed the problem was with the mouse, even though I've only had it since June or July this year (2010).
I found that this was just a problem with the mouse.
My issue was that the left button on my Logitech wireless trackball mouse would give me lots of problems.
So, then I realized that in all likelihood, this is a problem with 10.04.
However, after using the wired mouse for a few days, I started to notice that it was having the exact same problem.
In the end, I essentially gimped up this mouse trying to make it work, but to no avail.
Damn, I seem to have gone through so many mice and/or keyboards recently...