One thing about this method will be that you will probably want to get more IPs, which will cost a little more.
Containing things within an os is tricky as you mentioned.
Everything is group readable but only user writable.
I would use mod_suexec in Apache and run all scripts as CGI.
This allows you to set the user to run as in the virtual host definitions.
So buying a whole machine, and some IPs, will probably cost you more.
Instead, it creates containers which isolate a set of Linux processes from other processes running on the machine.
But I think that would be cheaper than buying the same amount of VPSs.
So the Apache server runs as (using Debian's settings, as that's what I know) www-data.www-data, all the virtual host directories are set as group www-data, but a user based on the client.
You can then set each virtual host subdirectory to a different owner, but same group.
Michael suggestion is to use VPSs, I agree with that, but I believe you said you have a VPS right now, that is probably either XEN or OpenVZ already.
So on the whole, my solution is just to spend a little bit more by leasing a server and getting IPs, but in the end I think it will make everything simpler for you.
As a note, the way I usually set up virtual hosts is with the following directory structure:
So I would recommend virtualization for containing things too, but I think if you have a bunch of sites, you might want to rent a whole server, and run OpenVZ or Xen on it.
You could maybe work something out with reverse proxies, but that is probably more trouble than it is worth.
Then put each site or groups of sites in its own container.
This doesn't completely prevent malicious viewing, but goes a long way.
You can have whatever else you'd like there, but Apache points to the html directory.
Then, since suexec controls the user to use, scripts and anything else can be in a client-specific group, making them unreadable by other clients.
If you are not worried about certain sites interacting with each other, put them in a container and use virtual hosts, otherwise give them their own virtual machine.
Unfortunately, I haven't traditionally used suexec in the past, since I've always owned all the sites.
It is not a virtual machine system like XEN or Virtualbox because it does not simulate a CPU.
For this kind of application I would seriously look at OpenVZ which is virtualizes Linux systems.