Also, Exchange 2007 and SQL Server 2008 are built on top of powershell, so many GUI tools for managing these are built on powershell.
Geekness is such a broad term that there is no average problem.
CMD's syntax is really screwy, after decades of backwards-compatible hacking.
    C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup\
I have always been intrigued by command-line/scripting tools, because geeks far cooler (geekier) than I use them and swear by them.
Gamers, anime and hardware freak, or just general computer geeks.
I would like to know what benefits the average geek could get out of Powershell.
Lee Holmes' Windows PowerShell Cookbook: http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596528492, which gives you specific solutions to specific problems.
If you don't use the command line already, then you're probably fine without knowing PowerShell.
Some of the cooler features include being able to traverse the registry from the ps> prompt like it was a mounted volume, recursion, and manipulation of any WMI object.
So, basically, unless you're an average geek that does heavy automation through batch scripting already or you play with SQL Server 2008 in your free time, you're not going to gain too much.
I have a heap of automated tasks that run such as automated shutdown, file backups or you could even start the programs you normally use on startup if you aren't prepared to add things to the registry.
Obviously I don't know much about powershell, but with a little knowledge you can automate a lot of tasks that might otherwise take you a longer time to do manually.
Windows PowerShell Getting Started Guide: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa973757(VS.85).aspx, which is nicely free and easy to get.
Also like any tool it becomes more useful the more you use it and get practice with it.
So long as you put it in the startup directory as a .bat file:
Every time you learn a little more of it, you're occupying a piece of your brain with a technology that needs to die soon.
Just like any tool it only helps you if it fits your problem.
It also knows how to talk to .NET and WMI, and how to remote itself.
So take people who spend all their time in front of their computer, but who aren't necessarily programmers.
But besides automating a folder RAR-ing and backing up over a network share once per week, I don't know what uses command-lines would be for someone like me, but perhaps I would find it more useful once I learned it?
Or if you know a bit about the powershell, which is basically just batch on a few Unix steroids you could easily backup your work or files with the running of a simple file
I would say that even using the windows command line helps my productivity.
Once you know PowerShell, you're now more qualified to work as a sysadmin.
If you're spending any time at the command line, you should be using PowerShell.
What benefits would these non-technical users get out of learning a command line/scripting language?
But if you think you'd like to try command lines, then start with PowerShell, not with CMD.
(You can tell windows to run things or scripts by using the Task Scheduler application)
The PowerShell team deliberately plans their product so that putting PowerShell on your resume makes sense.
Powershell is a tool for administrators to automate tasks across a broad deployment of machines or to administer specific applications.