I don't understand completely what it means, but it worked, and I haven't looked back since.
If I recall correctly, I also had issues with the computer (also Win7) waking up on its own until I put "Allow wake timers" on "Disable."
When run from the command line without the async version, nircmd will hang indefinitely, so I believe the underlying issue on my machine is likely driver-related.
If success, then next time do the test dividing the group into smaller groups instead of big 2 to find out the actual thing that cause this :)
But you said you tried shutting down every program and still the magic is not happening.
If Watch4Idle's screen off command does not work you can consider using the nircmd tool to trigger the screen off; specifically, have Watch4Idle trigger the following command:
If the display goes off at least for a second, that means it can and it is not that problem.
(usually vital Chipset drivers almost always comes with Windows these days).
Here you can examine all opened programs and opened Processes.
The easiest solution I have found is to use the Watch4Idle freeware taskbar app that was recommended by Lifehacker.
This command is sufficient to shut off the screen on my system.
Its "screen off" timer works, even though Windows' own screen off timer does not.
I have the same problem on an Ubuntu box - monitor won't turn off because the visualisation is moving.
Some processes wake up the display and some does not let the display to go off.... (Certain Media Players are common examples)....
Then test by killing non vital, non critical system processes and test....
The device that was causing this issue for me was the XBox 360 controller plugged in and charging in my workstation.
(I would not recommend attempting to do this with the Task Scheduler's idle settings as they are confusing to the casual user)
If a proper Display Driver not installed, the display can not turn off.... Power management features won't work without a proper video driver....
Unplug the receiver and then try the power off profile.
I had the same problem after upgrading to Windows 8.
Use NirCMD shortcut to test.... First test after exiting ystem tray programs.
A problem related to certain device or processes i guess...