Depending on the size of the motherboard you could change tower cases as well without a problem.
Some windows licences are for specific hardware only.
Without knowing more details of the old system it is hard to say if any of these are the case.
Could be registered to an account of the previous owner.
I recommend setting up a nice clean computer first and playing around with it.
I assume you also mean moving to a new motherboard.
I just mentioned the two I have the most experience with.
You could clone the hard drive with the OS to your new 2TB HD.
So much for a long winded way of answering If anyone can explain to me the correct way of transferring the OS system over to my new HD
*2 The 100 euro mentioned for office was the best I could find for office 2016 prof. (with access).
Then when you feel you have learned everything you wanted decide on one final install.
and if there will be any problems from moving tower cases and replacing HD
My girlfriends parents are getting rid of their old PC maybe about 3 years old but has Windows 7 installed on it with Microsoft office (Both of which I want).
Could be a legal copy, could be a 'install once and pay again next time'.
There are many different softwares out there that providing cloning.
So what I want to do is take out the other parts of the machine like CPU, power supply, motherboard etc and install it into my new computer tower and install my 2TB hard drive.
I've always wanted to build my own PC so I bought a 2TB hard drive and a tower in last months pay.
My other question is, as I am only replacing the HD will everything else in the machine be compatible with it?
I just wondered if anyone could give me advice on swapping some computer parts over.
I want to keep the OS and MO but I want it on my new 2TB HD, as far as I understood it's on the original computer hard drive but in the past I've updated HD's and can't for the life of me remember how I got the contents and OS off of the existing HD.
That part is answered in existing post on [SU] and I am skimping over it and only mentioning the search terms.
If anyone can explain to me the correct way of transferring the OS system over to my new HD and if there will be any problems from moving tower cases and replacing HD's.
Search the many posts on "cloning" and doing a sysprep before the cloning.
It will only work for 30 days*3, but you can learn a lot by just installing it and playing around, seeing how the sytem acti different.
Worst case: You either need to take the old machine (maybe upgrade it part by part and phone microsoft everytime too much changes and clean a failed motherboard and say that you replaced it), or you would need to buy legal copies.
There is hardly anything on it, and it will be easy to rest to factory settings etc and I have extracted the windows code for reinstall.
Full versions at reatil price can easily be 3 or 4 times as expensive.