We had a couple of OS X boxes running when I was still an admin at a local university.
Overall I found the graphical tools to be quite nice, but in the end I'd prefer a *nix/BSD machine over OS X as just a webserver unless you require some specific features such as iCal sharing or things like that.
I've checked out the apple.com Mac OS X Server page and it seems like its more of office server features rather than Web Server features, am I correct on this?
I'm with Farseeker on this: any Linux or BSD distro is going to be arguably "better" at hosting Apache than Mac OS X client or server, because the "server" flavor of Ubuntu is very stripped down, even more so with one of the BSDs.
However, when they are facing the internet that could also be a very scary though.
The staff loved it, because it enabled average users to admin the boxes.
Also keep in mind that if you want official support from Apple, you need OS X Server.
In business situations, this is a major reason to choose server.
In your case the difference between Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server will be additional management tool for the underlying web server (apache).
But using google and the command line CLient can be made to do just about everything Server can.
I used to manage an OS X Server machine which acted as a web and file server, handling over 10 requests/second without any issue.
It's also much less expensive -- the amount you'll pay for a Mac OS X client/server would buy you a very capable Web server from Dell, HP, IBM, etc.
Would Mac OS X Server be better than Mac OS X for hosting a web server?
(I have an OS X Client machine acting as a file server, DHCP server, Name Server and Netboot Server)
I can't say what it would take to pare down OS X Server for a Web server only role, but running ps waux on my Mac OS X laptop compared to my Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Web server tells me that you're likely going to spend some time getting it where you want/need it to be.
The advantage of Server verses Client is as radius said: Server has management tools whereas Client does not.
So if you need a management interface take Mac OS X Server, if your are comfortable with command line Mac OS X will do the job as well as the Server version.
Both Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server come with Apache and are capable of acting as web servers.