I solved this problem using a Class, but thought I might try to figure out this memoization thing.
A Const for delimeters won't work because System.Environment.NewLine is read only property that is not available at compile time.
Based on the test cases you provided, Long is sufficient.
The nextpage variable is never used, so it doesn't really matter which direction the loop goes.
This is the kind of optimization that would require benchmarking before deciding if it is worthwhile.
You did a good job separating the algorithm from input/output.
Right now, the user needs to perform an extra step before running your program a second time.
myTimes(0) + X and myTimes(1) + Y are calculated twice.
For some reason I couldn't get the delimiters to work as a constant.
If you only want to support integral types, you can use Long or ULong.
The math here is trickier than it appears, so make the assumption that my math is correct (it is).
The caveat is you never know when that one off function you write gets put in production for years.
Additionally, you could use more descriptive variable names than X, Y, and N. It matches the competition specs so it's perfect in this instance.
For this scale of number it's not a huge performance loss.
However, you only use delimeters in one spot, so a method variable like you currently have is fine.
Choosing Double because Integer gives you overflow seems misleading.
The algorithm looks like it should work for floating point, though.
If this weren't for a "competition" style of programming, I would recommend a parameter for the input file name so that the user can change it.
I'm using doubles because I kept getting overflow.
I'd be curious why you are using a decrementing loop, but it doesn't matter which direction you use in the grand scheme of things.
At first I thought "oh good, it handles decimal rates, like 2 1/2 pages per minute".
But if you were extending this to BigInteger levels, you could calculate them both once and assign the number if needed.
You could take it further by wrapping input handling in its own function outside of Main.
But for a long term program I would recommend something like printerXSpeed or numberOfPagesToPrint.
I'd also strongly encourage a separate parameter for output.