Memory (RAM) is being used as a temporary storage for data which can be accessed faster than data on hard drives.
This process mostly involves processing and storage device activity.
I have just downloaded a computer game which is around 2GB.
What should i know about what is happening on the memory?
So while installation process is happening most likely operating system will put different parts of the program being installed to RAM.
Doesn't installation process have to be as fast as downloading?
But when it comes to install the game on my computer, why is it that slow?
Memory could be referenced to RAM modules, fast internal CPU cache, swap file, virtual memory.
It is easier to download one file (even if it is several GB size) than unpack and copy hundreds of files.
Downloading mostly involves activity of network card and storage devices.
In most cases installation of big program will take longer because installation process involves unpacking of install package, copying its content to destination folders, performing necessary system changes (creating registry entries on Windows OS, etc).
There is difference of how fast different parts of memory can be accessed and how much data can they store.
Where are the files being written on the memory, or are they even?
Operating system will do it's best effort in order to utilize memory in best way.
Installation is a process of setting up a piece of software in the way that system can use it properly.
What defines how fast download will happen is performance of the network:
You are talking about two different things: Installation and Downloading.
If we talk about big program - it is hard to give an answer, because with 56 kb/s network connection it will take a couple of days to download a program and 10 minutes to install it.
So main point is - installation process deals with bigger amount of files than downloading does.
I mean, I don't understand the downloading process because the required folders were downloaded in the blink of an eye, but the installation was not even like 10mbps.
If we talk about program with 500kb size install file - most likely install process will happen as fast as download.
Downloading is a process of transferring data from one computer to another over the network.
So it can be seen that these two things are pretty independent (though they still have same thing they depend on).