If however (as your question says) You want to access over the network via a c$ share, you need to set up networking properly.
If you are running Windows on the guest, or a supported Linux Distribution, by far the easiest solution is simply to drag and drop the files either to or from the Virtual Machine.
Uncheck the read only box and it should map to a drive letter and you can copy files either way without any problems.
Lastly, if you are having trouble, sometimes it is easier just to mount the VMDK file.
You can add the Virtual HD to a sharing folder, then you can access it from other computers at the same workgroup, then when you get at the other computer with VMWare, you can browse to the path where is the virtual HD file.
You may have to use the ip address (ie smb://192.168.1.100/c$) instead of the server name in the address bar of Nautilus.
The easiest way to do this is to shut down the guest operating system, then double click on the hard drive in the specification of the virtual machine and click Utilities > Map.
Sometimes I spend far to long trying to debug this and it is easy to run the wizard as it sets all the security and shares for you.
The easiest way is to turn off the sharing wizard (tools > Folder options) Then set the location to home or make sure that file sharing is on and you should be able to access remotely.
(This goes a bit more ahead of your question, but also covers it).
look at this article on how to mount a vmware-disk under linux:
You have a few options for transferring files from host to guest.
http://legroom.net/2007/08/05/how-mount-vmware-disk-images-under-linux
If the disk is mounted and the mountpoint can be reached from network thats a valuable solution for this question too.
Just to save you a lot of hassle, apparently there are issue's with Gnome's file manager (Nautilus) when it comes to resolving Windows share names.
Another option is to use a KDE-based file manager, such as Krusader, which will also require the package kdebase-kio-plugins to support the smb protocol.
This is limited to Workstation only far as I know, as it does not work on VmWare Server.
Does VmWare Workstation not support drag and drop?
It is not exactly an answer to this question but it is interessting enough to present it here.