example.docx, to example.zip and then opening it with any program that can handle zip files.
This shows that the Word properties are the same as the file properties (just in case Word is doing something odd with dates).
It's plausible this was done innocently while proofing the document.
I took a document that I created back in November 2010.
You can open this file with any text editor such as notepad.
She would then have to make a change and save it again about 37 minutes later.
Look for a section in the file that looks like this:
In the docProps folder, look for a file named core.xml.
I am a professor and was emailed a Word document (.docx) by a student, which the student claimed to have completed by the deadline (about two months ago) but her partner failed to submit.
Finally I opened the file, made a change, and saved it.
I opened it in Word 2007 and displayed the properties.
If the document was indeed copied from another document, then you can ask the student for that document.
However, the student may have made the copy by opening the file and saving it with another name.
So, if the student just copied and renamed the document, it should have had the original modification date.
This gives the date and time of file creation in UTC, and I believe it is set when a file is first created.
So we know this file was created and modified then.
It's also possible that the document was started on May 11, 2011 at any time prior to 4:21 PM, first saved at 4:21 PM, and that additional changes were made and it was saved again at 4:58 PM.
This shows that the file was created on May 11, 2011 at 4:21 PM, and modified about 37 minutes later.
This is a new file as far as the file system is concerned, so both the dates are today's date.
Finally, it's easy to fake the dates by changing the PC clock.
I believe that the most accurate way to determine when a docx file was created is to look in the XML files themselves.
When I asked the student about the discrepancy, she couldn't explain it, except to say that she had copied the file from one place to another and had renamed it.
The student created the document in Microsoft Word 2007.
Giving the student the fullest benefit of the doubt, she could have created a copy of the document.