The PIT uses 1.193182 MHz clock source and is therefore much more precise than simple RTC.
So we'll have a timer which is updated after every set amount of processor cycles.
HPET uses a 10 MHz clock and is therefore more precise than PIT.
While Joel's answer is correct, in reality, it's a bit more complicated.
Something I have been puzzled about is this: how exactly does a computer regulate and tell time?
This way the CPU does not have to constantly check if something is done.
IIRC, there's a small crystal the vibrates at a specific frequency when an electric current is passed through it.
For example: if I were to write a program that did this:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_Precision_Event_Timer#Comparison_to_predecessors
When the CPU receives the interrupt, it will stop whatever it is doing and tend to the task which generated the interrupt.
Next interesting measurement system is time stamp counter.
Instead it can focus on other jobs and have the PIT tell it when the job is done.
Each movement is counted and a specific number of them trigger a clock cycle.
That is a major problem, sicen the CPU clock isn't constant anymore and we can't use it to measure time.
The problem with them is that they aren't very accurate, as can be seen from Syntech's links.
Another option which is less common than GPS receiver is to use a special radio receiver which decodes time information from time keeping radio stations such as DCF77 for example.
It can be more precise than 10 Mhz but never less.
And that's why we have high precision event timers now.
It is basically a chip which has a simple clock inside.
Here we come to the next point: There are internal clocks used for precise time measurements and countdowns.
What it does is wait a certain amount of time and then send an interrupt to the CPU.
Thanks for any replies; I'm really interested in computer science, and would love any help you could give me =D.
The 32.768 kHz crystal is too slow for any timekeeping on  modern systems whose processors are in megahertz and gigahertz range.
Since radio waves travel at speed of light, the delay is often insignificant.
At the time processors had very stable clocks and use of TSC was a nice way to make precise time measurements.
A less expensive option and much more common is to use external time source to calibrate internal time sources of the computer.
They usually have same type of quartz crystals as standard clocks and usually have a battery for time keeping when the computer is powered down.
Most popular and easiest to understand is the real-time clock.
There are other time sources available for computers which I believe need to be mentioned.
For example GPS receivers can be used to provide high precision time measurements, because GPS satellites have their internal atomic clocks.
Different processors have different tick rates and measure time at different speeds.
On the other hand, its clock source does not depend on CPU's clock and it can be used to measure time even if CPU's clock changes.
PIT has 1.193182 MHz clock, but even the earliest x86 processors had much higher clock.
First thing which needs to be taken into consideration (and I'm going to focus only on PCs here) is that there are several clocks in a computer and each has its own use.
Some computers are connected to atomic clocks and can use them to precisely measure time.
Such time stations have their own high precision time sources and transmit their output over radio.
The idea behind it is that we can get much more precise measurements of time using processor's clock source that using various system timers.
Later on, as techniology advanced we got modern processors which can change their frequency.
Unlike PIT, which works as countdown, HPET measures time since the computer was turned on and compares current time to time when an action is needed.