I then tried ghosting Windows over to my 1.5TB harddrive and it failed in the process, I got a few logical errors and ended up having to abort the process.
I restarted a few times during this and then remember I was still missing my 1.5TB harddrive, I powered off and connected it up.
I turned my system off and checked all the connections/switched sata ports etc.
Save yourself the headache, back up ASAP, and get a replacement drive.
Then I got the error message "BOOTMGR is missing" so I tried doing installing it through USB.
One day it just wasn't having it and I looked in to it and ended up having to reformat my harddrive.
w and then it successfully let me get passed the "Windows is preparing setup" and it listed my SSD and other Harddrive.
I'm having problems with my PC, first of all I started getting Disk Read Errors when trying to boot from my SSD.
I read up on it and I found a forum post saying that it worked for someone once they disconnected all devices except the device you wanted to install Windows on.
After several attempts I got to the installer, however when I clicked through the prompts, it got to a screen where it said "Windows is preparing setup" or something along those lines.
Instead, I took the windows files from SSD and put them in to a folder on my 1.5TB Harddrive.
I used a live version of Ubuntu to do this and I before completely formatting it, I went on to the SSD and transferred all my games over to my other 1.5tb harddrive so that only Windows was left on the SSD.
So here I am now, wondering if anybody could help me on what I should do next.
It hung there for over an hour and eventually it got to the screen where you are meant to choose where you would like to install Windows on to.
I then tried installing it on to my SSD and got the error code 0x80300024.
I booted in to windows and began installing drivers etc.
However as time went on (about 1 week heh), it took longer and longer to get through to boot.
Then I tried formatting/reinstalling windows from a disc and it wouldn't load up either, first of all it said disk read error and eventually it got through, however once I got past the Windows splash logo, the screen went black for 40 mins until I restarted it.
However I usually was able to restart my computer a few times and it would eventually boot up.
I then tried to boot back in to my SSD and I got the disk read error message again.
If a drive behaves errornously independent of OS and BIOS settings, it won't get better.
Frustrated, I tried all the connections again with no success.