You could make the puzzle appear random by tying it to the machine's MAC address or similar piece of data.
Even games like Fifa or LoL that obviously has no definite solution in the first place.
Why cheat it when you can simply skip the too hard puzzle and come back at it later without blocking your progress in the game?
A good example of how this can play out in a positive way is the game SpaceChem, made by Zachtronics.
There is a simple solution that can benefit you and your players, just let them skip it.
Of course, some of the puzzles in the game are fiendishly difficult, so maybe it's best that players can cheat if they want to.
This might actually be of more concern for you (if you want to allow score comparisons) than whether players can duplicate eachother's solutions.
The developer has a dev post on this where he describes a server-side validator that checks each solution against a model of the game logic prior to accepting the reported score.
The player can obviously keep playing and you get a direct feedback about that particular puzzle.
But using these methods you can only reduce the number of times they cheat and that's the best you can hope for.
But that being said you can more or less control people checking for online material.
For instance a simple search can give you detailed walkthrough/cheatsheet/solutions/guides to any game you can think of.
If X% of the player skip the level Y you can see that a majority of people find that puzzle too hard.
Because there are so many different solutions to each puzzle, copying a solution off the internet really doesn't impact much (just changes the histogram slightly for how many players achieve each score.)
First the level might be too hard for them or versu the previous one.
On a side note, the bigger issue in the above is validating that the solution is actually a real solution to the puzzle and not just a faked set of score data.
There are actually two separate score metrics (often with competing requirements, meaning that optimizing one requires reducing the other.)
People reading about a game in the net is a problem for all games, not just level-based puzzle ones.
Either case may be indicative of a problem with the particular puzzle's design.
If a player cheats, it's likely either because they're frustrated with a particular puzzle (and want to continue progressing) or they're disinterested in a particular puzzle and just want to get it over with.
That way, you can control the difficulty, but unless/until someone figures out both what the key is, and the algorithm, it will be impossible to go online to get the solution.
This let you adjust the difficulty of your game based on the feedback users give you while they benefit from their actions.
It helps a lot if your mechanics allow for more than one solution to the same puzzle.
All that being said, people will cheat, whether you like it or not.
This is a problem that don't realy have a solution.
It might just be something they can't concieve correctly how to solve, what ever.