Unfortunately, there's no easy way to answer that, because the way that MP3 VBR encoding technique "loses" data depends on something called the psychoacoustic model.
This is all a long way of saying: you really need to try encoding it at a given bitrate and listen to it.
The differences that are audible can largely be attributed to the properties of the mp3 format itself, rather than the encoding process, especially at lower bitrates.
In between, your auditory system hears some frequencies better than others, with great sensitivity near 22kHz (if I recall correctly), which is around the timbre of a human voice.
Is it ok to convert a MP3 file from 128kbps to 80kbps vbr?
E.g., CD audio, which, like WAV, is just a PCM audio stream, typically takes up the entire CD: ~600MB for about 60 minutes of audio.
WAV and AIFF audio files are uncompressed-- this means that for every audio sample, there is a corresponding unit of data (like 1 byte).
For instance, most humans cannot hear below 10Hz (you can FEEL it, though), and many people, especially older adults, cannot hear at the high end either.
This combination of techniques is often called "lossy compression", and for things like audio files, the loss of some information isn't a problem.
Most people already find it difficult to distinguish a properly encoded mp3-file at 128 kbps from its lossless source, let alone be bothered by the inferior quality.
The re-encoded mp3 will suffer the degradation of the lossy copying process twice, just like quality is lost with each generation of a photocopy or audio cassette.
The basic idea is like this: while the human auditory system can typically perceive sounds across the entire 44kHz range of a typical recording, not all frequencies are perceived equally.
One thing you should be aware of is: if you are re-encoding a file that was already encoded using a lossy codec, you will likely have unsatisfactory results given the file size.
This is why the "bitrate" of WAV files is very high; it cannot be compared directly to MP3 bitrate without taking MP3's compression ratio into account.
MP3 addresses this file size problem in two ways: by "compressing" the data, and also by discarding some of the data before the compression routine is run.
If you have access to the lossless files, encoding to mp3 from those is recommended, as this would lead to a better representation of the audio at the same file size, but it may be insignificant to your needs; if 80 kbps vbr mp3 will suffice, chances are converting from lossy will too.
I mean, will there be a difference if I convert 1411kbps WAV to 80kbps MP3 vbr?
If you can't tell the difference, there is nothing to worry about.
What you're asking is: at which point does it become a problem?
In all the areas where your hearing is not sensitive, you can throw those sounds away if they are not above a given loudness threshold, because you will not hear them.
To re-encode the audio once would not affect the perceived quality by that much.