The Micro SD card used is a Samsung 32GB PRO Class 10.
That said, in short, you are not alone and that performance is normally experienced by many.
I also have a microserver (Python3 Flask) running 24/7 that accesses/runs certain commands that I have programmed so I can remotely get it to do things when away from home (a.k.a.
I tried Ubuntu 16 once, nothing worked well at all.
Set a link and it was like running down a tunnel that wrapped back on itself.
I did get latency in all tasks to improve after I did the following.
They pack a good deal of processing power into a small form factor for a very low price and low power usage, but a GUI will make the sluggish, Raspbian too.
Everybody wants to think of them as desktop replacements, but they are not.
I use my PI as a Wordpress development server and prior to the upgrade it would get slow and unresponsive with complex operations.
Slow as you state, the packages that installed were not up to our project standards we have (example mysql was impossible to remote into).
My experience with Jessie was that it was a little sluggish initially.
However the Raspberry Pi still feels sluggish with simple usage like scrolling down a webpage in Firefox.
For example I have a Temper USB thermometer plugged in on a usb extension cord which the webserver can access to return back the room temperature.
Compare that to an Intel NUC which orders of magnitude more expensive.
So in essence, the tiny $35 Raspberry packs a hell of a punch!
On another note, overclocking will heat up your ARM chip a lot faster which will then kick-off the protection algorithm when under sustained load to lower the clock speed so it doesn't burn out.
I also have an NFS Client on it keeping tabs of my library of media on a File server I have, all while having multiple ssh sessions and tightvnc server running on it.
Check Amazon as they sell those tiny fans for the Raspberry.
As with DanglingPointer, my experience is with Raspbian rather then Ubuntu but I will say that using a Western Digital PI Drive hard disk for root and swap transformed my system noticeably.
So it is bound to run horrible regardless unless you compile it yourself and find everything you need.
Are there more overclocking and tweaks that can be done to make the system more snappy?
I installed Ubuntu Mate 16.04 LTS on Raspberry Pi 3 Model B and overclocked it to 1.4 GHz.
You will be looking to replace it sooner than later.
However, I would seriously avoid clocking it up to boost performance on an OS that is not very compatible with it.
First I would like to state that I use Raspbian Jessie on my Pi 3.
I manually formatted it with a proper swap partition and transferred my root partition from the SD Card onto the remaining space.
This is all running while Kodi is on even when people are actively watching movies or streaming from the net.
I doubt Ubuntu 16 has the needed kernel compiles for the rpi.
Things that I could improve but would take time and mean perhaps blowing away everything so I haven't done yet; well install Rasbian on F2FS.
If you want to stay overclocked then you will need active cooling on the ARM chip.
So far Raspbian runs very smooth and impressed with it's performance as a dev and server platform.
Currently as I said I am running Raspbian Jessie and have Kodi on top of it running 24/7.