In the real world you will have generators to kick in when the power cuts out.
The battery in your G4 wasn't new when you started this project.
If you run it with ok temperatures (no more than 50-60 degrees celsius I would say) it shouldn't matter.
Passing it down to a family member or friend that is less fortunate, anything is worth it, selling it, not so much.
The machine will be worth the couple bucks it would be without this use in a few years.
Might as well practice with something as apposed to nothing.
Not because of damage, but because the batteries were too worn.
however I would just like to add on to that and mention that:
How long can you hang without the wall, what do you do when the battery dies.
After a couple of years as a server, it will be that much further into it's useful lifetime.
Do that, if it doesn't work, think of something else.
There wasn't any physical damage: nothing leaked, melted, caught fire, or exploded.
If there are no obstructions around the laptop, you'll be fine.
Like i said before, if you are practicing or developing your skills.
You can expect the longevity of a laptop battery to be somewhere between that of a mobile phone and a car battery, but eventually it will lose its ability to hold a charge.
Removing the battery is a good way to make sure you don't wear that out.
Laptops also have moving parts (the fan and hard disk) and eventually they will wear out, but my experience was that the batteries went first.
(To emphasize: both were already older than that when I repurposed them as 24/7 home servers.)
However, just making sure you have some spare parts, keep it clean, etc.
A cooling pad would be a good investment in that case.
I've done that, first with an old TI '486 laptop, later an old Dell.
But to answer your question in the terms you asked it, I wouldn't have been able to hand those laptops down to someone else to use as a normal machine.
Unless it is a high end machine, it's going to be worthless anyhow.
Overheating really isn't a big deal, the worst thing that can happen is that the computer forcibly shuts down when the temperatures get too high.
I personally use a good, powerful cooling pad on my Dell laptop that stays on 24/7 - While not actively using the laptop, but it not being exactly idle - processing files etc... it'll rise to a max of ~57 Celsius.
Make sure the LCD screen is turned off (it should be if the lid is closed).
No, but if you want you can remove the battery and run the laptop with only AC, if you are concerned about battery wear.
If this is something you are trying to do in the interim to learn and develop your skills, I would say yes, keep the battery in as a backup power supply.
It doesn't really render it useless as a normal laptop unless the modifications you end up making render it not a laptop anymore.