They won't suffer mechanical failure and they can't be erased by a powerful magnet.
I have personally lost 3 magnetic disk hard drives because of mechanical failure.
When you want to write to the cell high(er) voltage is applied to the pad near the cell, and electrons tunnel into the cell.
Since you said that you were looking for a place to backup your music, I would recommend an external harddrive.
Again, from a practical standpoint, I have seen just as many flash drives fail as hard drives.
In electronics, "solid state" means that circuits are built entirely from solid materials, in contrast to other technologies that use vacuum or gas-discharge tubes, or electro-mechanical devices with moving parts.
I'm an on-site computer technician and I carry most of my software toolset on a flash drive.
Flash memory has a vastly higher per-gigabyte cost than contemporary magnetic or optical mediums.
Instead, flash memory is vulnerable to other failure modes.
Like SurDin said, eventually the flash cells wear out and fail (often leading to data loss, or at the very least preventing the flash memory from storing any new data).
They are more reliable because they do not suffer from mechanical failure like regular magnetic disk hard drives.
Frequent erasure or re-writing of data on a flash drive leads to quicker failure, due to the "flashing" process that sends a surge of electricity to clear the contents of a memory cell.
Because I run applications directly from the flash drive, a lot of writes/rewrites occur.
SSD or flash drives store information as electrical charges on a silicon chip.
The EMP from a nuclear detonation could wipe/alter/damage the charges on the chip thus destroying data.
As far as "memory loss and failure" vulnerability, solid state devices are not vulnerable to the same failure modes as standard hard drives.
But, in technical terms, USB thumbdrives are SSDs, as are drives based on volatile memory and software-based storage technologies like RAM disks.
There is a disadvantage to making everything smaller and more energy efficient - it is very delicate!!!
www.newegg.com has some excellent deals on external hard drives.
Solid state devices are a major improvement over magnetic storage but they are not invincible.
This makes Flash invulnerable to mechanical stress, that was the biggest problem of HDDs, but since there is a chance for the electrons to pass through the insulator surrounding the cell, it deteriorates over time, and depending on the size and quality of Flash cells, they have finite writing quantity.
Flash memory is usually faster than optical mediums (CD, DVD), but usually has much a much slower consecutive read/write speed than magnetic mediums (Harddrive).
At my current, almost daily use of my flash-drive I go through about one a year.
The charges are stored as a positive or negative charge similar to a capacitor.
If a media blackout was ever desired by anyone with the power (good guys or bad guys)  it could easly be done by any weapon that causes an Electro Magnetic Pulse (EMP).
Some failure modes can affect both types of drive; EMP, extreme circuit overload (think lightning strike), fire damage, and severe corrosion of interface contacts are just a sampling of the possibilities.
The cost per gigabyte will save you in the long run, the reliability is at least as high as flash memory, and it's the fastest option.
What happens is that you read the charge of a cell that is surrounded by insulating material.
The difference between USB thumbdrives and what is marketed as "SSD" drives is the type of NAND flash memory used (as well as the device capacity, and what interface is used).
In my practical experience, thumb-drives are equally as prone to failure as hard drives, but for different reasons.
(Usually between 1000 and 100000 times), afterwards you'll see bad sectors appearing like on regular hard drives.
I now use a SSD (solid state drive) hard drive for my laptop and have not had any problems yet but I dont trust anything manmade.