so i decided to reinstall windows on my larger drive with the smaller drive absent and install ubuntu with the larger drive removed...
Click it and confirm after that the tool will make your system boot to Windows 7 by default.
XPs bootloader copied itself on top of both 7s and GRUB.
so instead of a grub or some other boot loader i rely on the Bios select boot device...
You don't say whether or not you can still boot to Windows XP.
( if you have a small 100MB partition called "SYSTEM RESERVED" it should be marked as active )
And how Win7 can boot Ubuntu/Linux based operating systems.
No biggie at first, I was able to reinstall GRUB but then I get a NTDLR on Windows 7 and after using 7s disc to repair it the menu says my 7 install is not the same version than the one in the disc, WTF?
troubles with multi booting in the future can be expected to happen again.
You should have some basic understanding how Win7 is booting and what files are needed.
You should arrange multibooting so that Windows 7 boot manager has control of the multi-booting.
I had a nasty habit of messsing my system (turned out AVG actually sucks), and i had windows and ubuntu running .
Of course, if you can't boot to Windows XP, you can't install a Windows program to repair this.
Windows MBR on first disk, Windows 7 boot files on fist disk.
I had two hdd the larger on had both os and the smaller one was for data and acted as my carry around hdd to move data...
If you can indeed boot to Windows XP, you can install the Non Commercial Free version of EasyBCD to repair/rebuild your bootloader.
First of all Windows 7 needs for booting 3 things:
If you can still boot to XP you can try "Dual-boot repair" tool
With any partition manager ensure there is one partition on first disk marked ACTIVE.
After that you should understand how Win7 boot manager can boot XP.
I have 3 HDDs, one for Windows 7(x64), the other for Ubuntu(x64 too) and XP, and the 3rd for Ubuntu's SWAP and storage.
works like a charm... i still update grub to have an entry for windows but i kept the first boot device as the windows hdd so any guest or my parents got windows and not stuck with some alien virus attacking our pc (actual quote!)
If you do not have at least basic understanding of how every single operating system boots
Multibooting is not trivial and Windows 8 is comming...
finally i decided to install ubuntu on the smaller one but got stuck with something similar issues.. but then it clicked me.. the os installation scan for other os on all hdd...
but since you have dedicated HDD for your OSes here is one trick that i used.