As per the manual page (which should be installed, read man aplay):
Conversely, you may have a PCM available to the system which isn't really local.
In trying to get aplay to work too, I've discovered that my Bluetooth audio device appears when I enter the command aplay -L, but it doesn't when I do aplay -l.
I'm using Shairport-Sync to receive the AirPlay audio successfully, and can get it to output via Alsa to either the built-in minijack or a USB sound card, and I've got Bluetooth mostly-working, but I'm struggling to connect the dots.
Software plugins that are layered on top of hardware device also accept these numbers, e.g., plughw:x,y or dmix:x.
There's still a clock involved with the timing, but in this case it would be the clock for the transmitter/receiver, which isn't actually a "digital audio device".
aplay -L lists the ALSA device names of all hardware and software devices (that are configured to be listed).
aplay -l lists all hardware devices, i.e., devices handled by an ALSA kernel driver.
I'm trying to configure my Raspberry Pi (model B) to work as an AirPlay to Bluetooth bridge of sorts.
I've configured ~/.asoundrc so I can connect to my Bluetooth speaker successfully, and can play audio via mplayer using the command mplayer -ao alsa:device=bluetooth audiofile.mp3, but I can't get any output via aplay.
I think if I can understand this, I might be able to play audio via aplay on the command line, and if I can do that, I should be able to get Shairport-sync to output to my Bluetooth speakers too!
To use device name xxx with aplay, run aplay -D xxx.
These devices, identified by card number x and device number y, can be accessed directly with a device name hw:x,y.
It may colloquially refer to a source/sink of such a signal ("PCM interface" might be clearer), which usually requires a hardware clock to work, hence they cannot be created arbitrarily.
Some sound cards and devices may have multiple PCMs available.
This explanation is conjectural on my part, but fits the facts.
PCM is the standard way that uncompressed digital audio is encoded for playback.