Moreover, you may need to know how much certain sets of recycled files and folders had been taking.
Windows’ refusal to show information about more than 15 files is yet another baffling design choice.
Of course not, you need to know the size of the actual files and folders.
It doesn’t matter how many items you’ve selected, if even one of them is a shortcut or folder, Explorer won’t show the size at all, even though it clearly knows the size of those items per the Size column next to them.
For example, if you delete a bunch of stuff, you want to be able to see how much space you will be freeing.
I have Windows 7, and I too had the problem of not being able to find out the amount of space that would be freed up once I emptied the Recycle Bin.
So, it may just be easier in this case to do the right-click/Properties on the $Recycle.Bin folder in the C drive as suggested earlier.
WinDirStat will compute the size of your recycle bin, along with presenting a graphic representation of all the files on your HD and how its space is used.
Available in many software repositories/online shops (that come with ugly installers).
FYI (don't mean to insult anyone):  to select all files after opening the Recycle Bin, hit the CTRL button and "A".
There is a bug in Explorer which prevents the Recycle Bin from showing the size of selected items in the bin if even one shortcut or folder is selected.
In addition to all the other things it improves, one of the things it restores is the ability to see sizes in the Recycle Bin.
In addition to all the other problems with Explorer and the Recycle Bin, it is simply flat-out broken.
It would have been good if Microsoft would save us people trouble to go to all these lengths and just implement the functionality the XP recycle bin had.
Once you un-select any folders, the size displays at the bottom.
It shows the size of all selected items no matter what is selected or how many items are selected (figure 1).
I just found MiniBin by e-sushi which puts an icon on the tray.
The easiest solution I could find is the following:
Figure 1: Screenshot of Windows 7 Recycle Bin with Classic Shell installed, showing the size of 21 selected bin items including shortcuts and folders.
I found that Windows 7 DOES display the total size if you select all the files in the Recycle Bin ONLY IF YOU DO NOT INCLUDE FOLDERS IN THE SELECTION.
It turns out that the simplest solution is to use the free shell-enhancer Classic Shell, which is meant to fix Windows by restoring the shell to how it was in XP which everybody was happy with for the most part.
Unfortunately, if you have a lot of folders in the Recycle Bin, you have to click on these individually and then manually add the sizes to get the total size of the Recycle Bin.
On Windows 7 I used Recycle Bin Vista Gadget which was great.
For some unknown reason, Microsoft decided to make a horrible UI/UX decision and make it difficult/inconvenient/impossible to see the size of recycled files and folders in Vista and up.
To de-select folders after selecting all, hold down the CTRL button and click on the folder(s).
The folder size can be determined by opening each folder and selecting the files as above.
If you're trying to figure out where the space on your drive went it's much better than trying to poke around just using explorer.