In summary, the safest situation is to use a web server in a virtual machine with trusted code, and an eye on changes to the virtual system to detect intrusions.
(Caveat: batch files and shell scripts are still a bad choice, because they are hard to secure.)
If you have content that you don't want the government to see I would recommend using pseudonyms like the Baidu 10 mythological creatures.
I would recommend a host that's outside of the country (of which there are many free hosts).
Thus, you can use any language in which you have proficiency, or any program that can be made to understand the web server's output!
However, if the system on which the web server is on has direct access to the internet, accidental or malicious misconfiguration could reveal your ip address.
Further, if malicious or poorly-configured code is accidentally run on that machine, any changes can be rolled back to the initial clean state.
CGI is simply a way for the server to talk to a program via STDIN and STDOUT, just like on a terminal.
But of course your site will get blocked very quickly (as my blogs all did).
You cannot provide content to others this way though, it doesn't make sense.
The best idea is to run the web server in a virtual machine with an internal-facing network interface.
so that it has no direct access to the internet or local disks.
Tor only protects your ability to surf the web without being seen.
Safe enough would be untrusted code in a virtual machine, if you take care to properly configure the virtualizer (which is much easier than compitently auditing web site scripts for privacy!)
If nobody can find you because you're hidden you can't provide content to them.
It requires skill to audit a web site script, so the best choice is something you can fully understand.
Any web site script is suitable if it is audited for privacy and properly configured.
With this, the server can not reveal your ip address because it does not know your ip address.
There are also a number of web servers and bulletin boards that are anonymous in China and haven't been blocked but I don't know (I don't speak enough Chinese).