4-pair UTP cable with RJ-45 connectors was invented for audio telephone use.
That capability is why TX survived while T4 was essentially only used transitionally.
This might seem a stupid question but why do Ethernet cables have 8 wires?
It isn't much thinner or cheaper than 4-pair because 2 pairs need the same physical and electrical protection as 4 if you're going to run it in walls and conduits.
Swapping out old 4-pair phone or Cat3 UTP for 4-pair Cat5 UTP in the same runs wasn't free but it was a fairly simple path to a big improvement in communication capabilities.
It's good method to eliminate interferences on the line - on the line can be interfered other signal to the line, but it will be added on the both line in the same direction - for example, if you have add on the both line +10V and you will have logical "1", you will have on the first line +20V, on the second line 0V (-10V + 10V), but difference is stil the same, 20V.
Regarding your additional question about number of cores...
T4 provides 100Mbps over all 4 pairs of Cat3, which was in place in many miles of conduits in businesses already for phone and prior networking technologies.
This is, because on the RX end of cable signal is evaluated as difference between the first and the second line in the pair.
If the first cabling system used 4 pairs, it was, because 2 pairs was planned for computer network and other 2 pairs was planned for voice communication.
100BASE-TX, -T2, and -T4 were developed in parallel, targeting adoption on different sorts of pre-existing wiring plants.
10BaseT and 100BaseTX only need four wires, but Gigabit Ethernet needs eight.
TX needs 2 pairs of Cat5, which leaves 2 pairs usable for other applications: a distinct physical network or telephone service, split out with a very simple adapter.
Ultimately, no one uses 2-pair Cat5 UTP because 2-pair UTP of any grade has never been an economically reasonable option in money or space terms for anything longer than a patch cable.
If you want have full-duplex communication on the 1Gbps speed, you have to use optical cabling.
As the first notice: In this type of cabling system there is using for transmit one signal not one conductor, but pair.
Its adoption and evolution as a medium for high-speed digital data communications has been a matter of convenience: adapting pre-existing mass-produced products for new uses rather than devising a completely new technical standard specific to one new application.
Cat5 cables were just using 4 of the 8 wires, so only 4 are actualy 'needed'.
Be honest: I don't know precisely, how many volts are on the wire, it is only for imagination.
The way this works has been demonstrated in the development of speed standards.
T2 can work on 2 pairs of Cat3 at the cost of a more complex signaling model and interference sensitivity, which explains its de facto non-existence.
From 1Gbps networks, computers are using 4pairs and communication on this speed is only half-duplex.
Similar for logical "0" will be difference on the pair 0V.
In one line wire is signal in the + phase, in the second one in the - phase (logical "1" is in one line for example +10V, but in the second line of pair is -10V).