So your variables would be "number_of_marbles_in_a_white_box", "number_of_marbles_in_a_blue_box", "number_of_white_boxes", "number_of_blue_boxes", and "number_of_marbles".
Each cup has a name written on it, so you can say "give me the thing in the large cup with a name of X".
First explain the kid meaning of variable as something that keeps changing (like weather).
You have different sized cups, which means they can hold different types of things.
I really like this description: Cup Size -- a story about variables.
Just involve her in the writing and show her how it dumps out:0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, ...
"A white box has three marbles in it, and a blue box has four marbles in it.
It also has a follow-up article: Pass-by-Value Please, which describes the fact that one TV can have multiple remote controls, each in a cup, and swapping out one of the remote controls for one that points to a different TV doesn't change the original TV.
One of the first programs I wrote (guided by my then much older IBM 370 systems programmer brother-in-law) specifically to learn what variables are and how they are used computed Fibonacci numbers.
A remote control goes in a cup, and points to a TV.
You get the idea though.... you have a 3 variables, sum, num1 and num2.
It then talks about the more advanced idea of references, which it describes as remote controls.
Then he will get idea about the word and then tell him, in CS how we assign a value to the variable and how we are able to change it afterwords
Like I said this is more advanced than you care about, but it really helped me understand the idea of pass-by-reference vs pass-by-value back when I was still figuring that stuff out.
Restrain your natural tendency to use shorter names.
I think with most people, and especially with kids, you need to demonstrate this and then "let it sink in."
You know the rest...  Get your daughter to write a program that does that.
You can also make life easier by calling the variables something meaningful, which is good programming practise anyway.
This answer is probably a little more advanced than you're looking for, but it might help somebody else in the future, especially if they're working in a Java-like language.
I'm not sure there's a "magic" explanation you can give her such that she will achieve "crystal clarity."
If I have six white boxes and five blue boxes, how many marbles have I got?"