NAS (Network attached storage) are  'disks' + 'filesystem' + 'sharing software'.
The current architecture is basically our "File Server" machine has a shared drive, and everyone dumps their files in there in the folders we've set up.
If it really is the network, a dedicated windows server could be enhanced to provide channel bonding (more than one network interface working together)
For what its worth, I recently migrated a file-based database from a Netgear Raid 5 NAS (3 drive, consumer quality?)
We're reclaiming space by re-organising what's currently in the directory, but it would be nice to have the expandable drive features that some NAS devices offer and stuff like that.
What ever the NAS you have, you will almost always be limited by the network speed.
This seemed surprising; I have a ReadyNAS NV+ at home that has treated me incredibly well, but admittedly I'm the only one accessing it.
The short answer is, there is no inherent difference in file transfer speeds when comparing a NAS device and a Windows server.
Since you don't need these, the NAS is the cheap and effective file sharing capacity.
But since I didn't have the benefit of any numbers providing evidence one way or the other, I let it go.
We don't worry too much about quotas or things like that, and everyone has access to everything on the share.
Even if your system are connected through 1000Mb, this still only account for a theorical 125MB/s which is about what a standard SATA drive can now provide.
The only limiting factor is the speed of the network (be it Fast Ethernet or Gigabit) and the speed of the disks (depending on the disk setup, anywhere between 80MB/s to 200+MB/s and beyond).
to a Win Server 2012 Raid 5 (5 drive) and immediately experienced some lag in application performance.
So there's is lot more to it in protocols, particularly if Windows uses SMB, as I'm starting to learn quickly.
Additionally, with your usage I would be looking at cloud based services which would resolve the slow vpn issue
I would test everything in your price range against a windows server.
Not all cifs servers are the same and not only does performance differ so does management.
They will both (probably) use the CIFS protocol to offer up the file shares and transfer the files.
While they have less memory than a standard system, NAS tend to be faster because they have more disks (so more I/O can be processed) and get less random access due to software running on the host.
Of course, we are perpetually running out of space and buying more hard drives to try and keep up.
So the slowness experienced by user is most likely due to your VPN device, upstream connectivity or your network.
But we're now once again into "Running out of available space" territory.
If anything, I'd think the Windows share would be slower because Windows is more likely to be trying to think about other things than churning out files, but I have no way of testing my theory.
When we first looked into setting up the file server, I suggested a NAS instead, but was told "NAS devices are too slow, and the VPN is slow as it is".
However, when I bring it up, I continue to be told that NAS devices are inherently slow.
I work in a smallish company - about five people in the office, with another fifteen or so scattered around the country accessing network files via VPN.
If the sharing software is CIFS, you have the equivalent of a Microsoft Windows share running on a desktop.
The difference is that the Windows server will offer more granular permissions and sharing rules.