Anything running from temporary locations would be suspicious.
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb896653.aspx
If you set it to no proxy and your browser will stay that way in the future, there is no reason to investigate further.
You could also use Process Explorer from MS to see the location of all running processes:
If the problem persists and the settings reverts to use a proxy, than you may have a malware, but your setup looks secure enough.
Any suspicious files could be uploaded to VirusTotal.com.
Uncheck the box and do not re-launch Fiddler, and all is well (though at times Fiddler does not track the traffic from that browser instance).
After the malware is removed, the server refuses connections, so you will just need to configure it to use 'no proxy'.
You will need to go to View->Select Columns and make sure Image Path is selected in order to see the location of each running process.
Solution:  Start Fiddler2 again .. then do normal EXIT  and PROXY restored to normal.
I usually sort the view by image path...makes it quicker to see problem locations.
I debug my Silverlight application calls via Fiddler and have realised that launching Fiddler does automatically check the "Use a proxy server for LAN" checkbox.
When the malware installs, it plants a proxy program on your system,  then configures firefox to use the proxy 127.0.0.1 (localhost) on some weird port (this is of course the port on which the proxy program is taking requests.)
I ran MSConfig and there was a new process set to run during the startup.
I have had this happen a couple of times in the last month or two and I have seen or heard of it happening to co-workers recently.
Some malware proxies are also commanded to block anti malware searches and websites.
I a doozy once, so i went to malwarebytes site, but it wouldn't go through.
The two times it happened to me none of my tools detected the problem.
When you google something, your request goes through the proxy program and then to the internet.
I had it running and doing some Web debugging ... then REBOOTED my PC and clicked FORCE ...  so my PROXY setting remained how Fiddler2 left it ... routing all traffic through Fidder2 (which was not running after reboot).
Maybe it was a Windows update or browser update installed recently which messed up some settings.
You may want to run a second tool in addition to MalwareBytes.
I wouldn't bother with a problem like this, unless it's recurrent.
The proxy program searches your request and then sometimes returns relevant ads when you click the link.