No more annoying pictures when waking up my computer.
A certain person kept playing a prank on me and kept changing my logon screen to Justin Beiber or something whenever I stepped away from my desk.
So here is a script I wrote to monitor the folder for changes.
The script suppresses the window and instead runs it in the background.
So my script monitors the folder for number of files.
The reason for the vbs script is so that when the script runs every 5 minutes I don't have a command prompt window flash every 5 minutes.
The file that is actively used for the logon screen is located here:
edit: it seems you need to have this flag in the registry set in order for non-Windows logon screen to work.
Since I was running this script simply as a scheduled task, I actually ran the script through this .vbs script:
I'm not entirely sure what the best way to go about this is, but any hints would be great.
Then in a retaliation move, it automatically copies an image of the Backstreet Boys to his computer making it the logon image for his computer.
There actually is no need to change anything in the registry from what I understand, but the image itself just has too meet certain requirements in terms of size and colour depth.
That file is what is displayed as the Windows logon screen.
But he accomplished this by renaming my current "BackgroundDefault.jpg" to .old or something and then copied in his image.
C:\Windows\System32\oobe\info\backgrounds\BackgroundDefault.jpg
If your computer has an OEM logon screen then it should already be set:
Now to give a bit of background, the whole point of this was to stop someone from remotely changing my background.
What I want to do is monitor the Windows background or Login screen from being changed.
Simply replace the file with an image of your choice and you're good to go.
This isn't a typical question and I thought of posting this to Programmers Stack Exchange, but I believe here is more fitting.
If it detects more than one file, then it empties that folder and restores a copy of my background image from an alternate location.