I have friends in heavily regulated environments who use this and are happy.
If your environment isn't so relaxed you might want to look into Sun's SAM/QFS which lets you push snapshots offsite.
That puts us in the business of selling storage, so the more they use, the better it is for us.
For exchange mailboxes, MRM is in my experience the most underused component.
Instead of 'empty deleted items on exit' which encourages people not to delete anything, use MRM to apply a rolling email deletion cycle applied to the deleted items folder (don't forget to turn on the dumpster so messages can be recovered on the client side easily too).
Really misbehaving students would be put back into quota but that situation has not risen during my employment there.
You get a limited amount of backed up storage, and, this is limited by us being able to actually backup that data.
Contrary to what you expect this wasn't pirated stuff but their own video footage and music from the school band.
I was a sysadmin at a school and all students had network accounts.
(Higher volume = lower unit cost, since staffing requirements don't scale up quickly with disk utilization) We define a couple of different categories of storage (remote, central, central-replicated), and don't use quotas or similar mechanisms.
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb123507.aspx
Another solution we're looking at implmenting is Symantec's "Enterprise Vault" especially if you're doing disk-disk-tape or have the tape storage available to shuffle files off to.
We have a chargeback model where the customer pays for what they consume.
For most students this went well but some filled up their directory quickly with gigs of video and mp3.
I wanted to encourage the use of computers so I removed the quota limits on the home directories.
Other than that, one of our admins down south of us has a tendency to let the users' project spaces fill up, then encourages them to run duplicate finders and large-file/last-accessed programs such as "Doublekiller", "Easy Duplicate Finder" and "JDisk Report", which is one of my personal favorites.
We use the default Microsoft quota system on the file servers, specifically when it comes to home drives.
So in the end I only needed a script which made up some nice statistics of the file usage, if a home drive was filling up more then ten times the average I would have a look at it and suggest a better way of archiving.
Mostly this was just a list of the biggest files and last access time.
You get a much much less limited amount of unbackedup storage.
This works in an environment where we don't have regulatory requirements to save and audit everything, and, we have users who can make the distinction between important and not so important storage.
I'm sure that other vendors have similar products.