I tried all I can, reseting network settings, setting various duplex mode on network cards, copy-paste various files, restarting services on server, disable and even uninstall antivirus, firewall, monitor on server and on client, that the network is not utilised (both run below 1%), the disks are not utilised (same ), CPU is just fine, so there are no visible problems on both sides, and as I mentioned, there are computers which can access the server with full speed, without anything being different.
So reviewing with the cmd "Net sessions", this list all active sessions consumed by file share access, multiple of that was made a month ago, plus Kaspersky reviewing and Search Indexer process duplicate the job of every read/write file the performance was degraded to 10%.
If you run a tracert does the traffic take a path you expect it to take?
But when we restarted the file server it persisted and we also noticed Outlook slowness.
So, please review the connections, close the old connections, stop process using/examining files and test it with a recent power on computer.
I have an issue like this, the resource availability of my server was consummed by kaspersky reviewing every file on NAS/File system, after that all client previously authenticathed not lose access or performance to shared, but new clients without previous connection not able to view, transfer and the performance to connect to NAS File server was pooor.
Do you have ANY hints or ideas, how to troubleshoot it or what might be going wrong in this ?
In our case it turned out to be a fibre connection between the workstation subnets and server subnets.
The tracert should also show you where the slow hop is
Ping behaves normally, all below 1ms, no timeouts, no lost packets.
Only IPv4 is used, DNS and DHCP provided by Windows.
What makes me crazy is the fact, that when I connect from the "slow" computer to the server via Remote desktop, and I simply COPY-PASTE the very same files to local computer, it runs with full speed (it means the physical connection between server and client is just fine and able to run on full speed, there is just some difference between copying from shared folder and via remote desktop) !
From some of the computers (it seems that only from those who have been turned off during weekend) the speed of download from server shared drive is ridiculous, some 100-200kb/s on 1Gb network.
Maybe you will need reboot the File Resource Service to acomplish this performance recovered to 100%.
Browsing on web on "slow" computers run on full speed as well, only shared drives and some applications from our server (photo map tiles) run slow.
we run homogenous network based on Windows SBS (2008R2) server and W7 as clients.
All the clients and the server are 1Gb cable connected to Cisco SG-200 switch, no extra settings there.