A lot of people are not aware that the Windows network configuration can be adjusted through the command line.
Using this method will allow your user to keep the laptop set on DHCP mode without any problems.
Most laptops don't have this, so you might need to use a USB network interface to achieve this.
I don't know if there's an automatic way, but the way I did it with my laptop was with a program called Mobile Net Switch.
With that in mind, it becomes trivial to write 2 .bat files which you can put on your desktop.
I use this setup for my home network so I don't have to worry about manual configuration on the device side - all configuration is done from the router.
If you're using a laptop running linux (you tagged windows 7, so this is more for completeness), then you can use IP aliasing to assign two IPs to the same interface.
Combine with the above idea to create a network port which will try to use DHCP, but fall back to static IP if DHCP fails.
Third party router firmwares like Tomato and DD-WRT support this out of the box.
An alternate solution if your router has this feature in its firmware is to configure Static DHCP for that device.
Is there a way to configure their computer so that it will obtain an IP address automatically when the configured static address is not available (without making the user go into network configuration and changing to obtain automatically)?
Configuring a static address is analogous to telling the computer to completely ignore the network - a static address is in concept "always available" (barring a IP conflict) from the computer's point of view.
If you can find a way to use multiple network interfaces, configure one for DHCP and one for static, and set the static one to have a higher metric (cost) than the DHCP one.
This will cause the system to use the DHCP if it's available, but fall back to the static one if the system isn't connected to a DHCP network.
I have seen some questions that are similar to my problem but not a good solution.
User has a laptop and has a static IP address at the office.
http://www.mobilenetswitch.com/ It lets you juggle between different active network configurations so you can have one for your work network and when you go off site, you switch to the network configuration that is set to obtain DHCP automatically.
This makes it a lot easier to switch network configurations
Get the laptop's wireless MAC address, and if your router supports it, configure it to automatically assign a static IP address on the router.
They also take the laptop off site where they also need internet.