Before the transfer, that party must agree that this agreement applies to the transfer and use of the software.
The license to run SQL Server belongs to you, you can run anything you like on it.
However, it did not look like in the screenshot that they included the Proof of License label.
Well, I'm happy to report that you guys are all WRONG.
He volunteered to send me contact info so I could get in touch directly with their MS licensing rep but I haven't seen that info so far and we've been so busy with other things I haven't asked again for it yet.
Also note that SQL 2008 and SQL 2008 R2 are licensed differently so you'll need to make sure you have the correct one installed.
Seriously though, this is what I received in the mail yesterday, without even a scrap of paper along with it.
Inform him that you want the physical copy of SQL Server 2008 that you are entitled to based on the fact that you have purchased a copy of the software.
Sounds to me like he's charging you for software and isn't actually purchasing a license from Microsoft.
Actually, SQL Server 2008 R2 licenses are transferrable per the EULA, so I assume SQL Server 2008 is allowed also.
The first user of the software may transfer it, this agreement and CALs directly to a third party.
Actually there is Microsoft Independent Software Vendor (ISV) Royalty Licensing Program, through which a software vendor could obtain licenses for some Microsoft products and redistribute those Microsoft products integrated with their applications.
For some products, including SQL Server, there are two types of licenses:
If you are running on an MSDN license that is fine, provided that you have a legit purchased license sitting in a drawer (or email folder) that is assigned to be for that computer.
The transfer must include the software and the Proof of License label.
Here is the text from the EULA as downloaded from http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=2803
I received my official installation media today, and while I'm a little disappointed in the decline in packaging quality at Microsoft, I'm happy to have this little episode behind me:
If you have in fact purchased a SQL Server license then you are entitled to a sealed copy of the software, not a burned copy (which I'm pretty sure at this point is what he'd offer to give you).
If he keeps giving you the BS about his license requires that he installs it, etc.
If when you connect in object explorer is says 10.0 that's SQL 2008 if it says 10.50 that's SQL 2008 R2.
Any SQL License that isn't a retail pack is pre-pidded so that isn't a worry.
As for your MSDN license, Microsoft doesn't really care what key is installed, they care about what licenses you have purchased.
The first user may not retain any instances of the software unless that user also retains another license for the software.
There is no license restriction in place that Microsoft would require that a vendor change the sa password and say that the instance can only be used for their software.
The license may be able to be transferred using the Volume Licensing Center, although the recipient might also need a Volume Licensing Agreement to transfer the license to (usually this is created when you make an initial volume licensing purchase).
The BSA will be more than happy to hunt him down, skin him and take all his money (you'll get a cut as a finders fee).
As for how such products should look… Microsoft says in the ISV Royalty Program FAQ:
At this point the explanation from my contact there is that his company has some form of Open license that allows them to resell SQL Server to their clients in this form, using their key.
The vendor may request that you only run their software on that server, in fact they may require that you only run their software on the server through their support agreement, but that is between you and the vendor and has nothing to do with Microsoft.
tell him that you'll be contacting the BSA (Business Software Alliance) and reporting him for software piracy (which is exactly what he is doing if he is charging you for a license and not actually providing one).
Obviously the Run-Time license is cheaper (in some cases more than 2x).
Just make sure that the instance that you installed was a Standard Edition instance not a Developer Edition instance from MSDN.
If it is truly a Volume License, they would not have such label.