How do I determine from this what cause the blue screen of death.
I have found some detailed information about 0x00000124 bugcheck code here.
Electrolyte capacitors usually have some X-styled grove on top of them.
just 1 instead of 2 if your machine uses two modules).
But it also could be there is some processor-related option (maybe related to the Execute Disable bit, TPM, or virtualization) in your BIOS that has changed for some reason since you installed Windows.
Even if you think your capacitors on the mainboard are OK you might still try replacing the power supply at least temporarily in order to assure that this is not the source of your problems.
The only thing you can say for sure is that if they look broken they are broken for sure ;).
I personally would recommend first doing a memory check:
If you think your hardware is OK and memtest did not return any memory errors after long-period run then you might have a look at your software.
Please help, I don't have any idea how to interpret what's written on blue screen view.
Broken drivers might be a source of such errors too - however usually a BSOD then reports the broken driver module, not a generic 0x00000124 error.
Some capacitors within the power supply might be broken too rendering the voltage supply unstable which could have various impact on system stability.
If errors are found it's likely to be a memory or motherboard issue or incompatibility.
If you see leaked or swelled ones they are for sure broken which usually results in unstable systems.
In such cases you might try to run with less memory modules (e.g.
If you don't know what a capacitor is look for cylindrical devices on your mainboard.
Try running manual Windows Update applying all optional updates too (often driver updates are pending in optional Windows updates).
Try visiting the homepage of all your hardware component vendors and look for updated drivers.
Open up your machine and look for broken capacitors.
Typically many of them are located around the CPU socket.
Just leaving a minimal system with your Mainboard, minimum memory configuration, CPU, graphics card and HDD.
If the error does not occur again try re-adding one component only and test stability for a while unless the error happens again so you can identify the broken component or it's associated driver.
Well, I think I cannot clearly tell you where exactly it came from.
Unfortunately if your capacitors are not leaked or swelled they might still be broken.
Including unneded drives, USB sticks, eSATA drives, add-on cards like soundcards, TV cards and the likely.
You did not write anything about your hardware or it's age.
Well, you might try removing all non-crucial hardware components from your machine.
The bug check code (0x00000124) also indicates hardware-related issues.
One other reason for hal.dll to throw an error used to be if you installed your system under an ACPI BIOS, and then switched your BIOS to "disable ACPI" by enabling legacy APM support.
Of course there aren't 64 bit systems that use APM, though.
If they are "swelled" then they are likely broken.
High voltage even after several hours/days after unplugging might still be present.
It's ofthen the case that older hardware suffers from silently dying capacitors.
Caution: Do not open the power supply if you're not familiar with such devices.
But it seems that the problem occurs in hal.dll which already points us to ha hardware-related problem.