If the issues still occur on a different screen then you need to check your video card.
If everything is clean, airflow is good and all fans are running, then I would suspect a faulty video card - but not until ruling out temperature and contamination as a source of the problem.
Verify that all heat sinks are also clear of contamination - if necessary clean with a can of air-duster.
If it works, hey you fixed your system for the price of a cheap graphics card.
If your system BIOS has a health-monitoring screen, check your recorded temperatures - if they are high, you have a definite overheating problem.
If it doesn't, you've gotta replace the system, most likely.
If the BIOS screens are blurry at this point the problem, while it may have been caused initially by overheating, is no longer the direct fault of overheating.
Blurry screens, even in BIOS, would not seem to me to indicate overheating.
Now the question is: do you have a discrete graphics card, or are you using onboard/embedded graphics?
If you have a separate (discrete) graphics card, get another comparable one and swap them out.
It's cheaper, and you can probably use a spare or borrow one from a friend briefly.
If the graphics are embedded, you may still be able to purchase a cheap graphics card just to test.
It'll probably be cheaper to replace than to repair, unless you have a warranty still.
The system locking up the first time you saw the failure would tend to indicate your system is overheating, and that the normal hardware protection for such a situation has not worked as expected - fans have not ramped up their speed, and the CPU and GPU may not have dropped their operating speeds to allow themselves to cool.
Especially if I'm reading your question correctly.
(As in, is the graphics card a separate device plugged into the mainboard and the connector you plug your screen into on the computer is perpendicular to most of the rest of the connectors and projecting through a slot in the case, or is the graphics connector grouped in with all the other USB and network and other ports?)
Use the following test to determine if this is the case:
The screen is probably the obvious choice for swapping first.
Leave the computer off for at least several hours to make sure all the components have cooled down sufficiently.
Verify that all fans are running, that air is flowing correctly through your system, and that your air intakes are clear of contamination.