Calling a venue an "ISP" is a distortion of the venue's purpose.
StarBucks in general does not want to be involved in that.
I've went down a rabbit hole after discovering that I couldn't ssh into a machine while on Starbucks WiFi (don't ask).
A StarBucks or any other public venue is afraid of visitors doing Bad Things,
For residential ISPs, it would be nice if they could have an opt-out if you want a completely unfiltered wild-west connection (maybe it could be an option if you're paying for a static public IPv4 address).
 including but not limited to cracking into other computer systems, pirating movies, using all available bandwidth so that other visitors can't use it, or distributing pornography.
StarBucks is there to sell coffee, and offering slow generic web page access is just a come-on, which they are entitled to take away or limit at any time.
The workers at the local StarBucks don't want to police it.
The management of the local StarBucks doesn't want to track down who's doing it.
At a place where it turns out (after research) a ton of developers do their developing at these locations?
There's a tradeoff between losing legitimate services (your SSH) and stopping unknown bad visitors from performing bad actions.
I've read about how to get around it, which ports are blocked, but not why port 22 (in this case) is blocked.
ISPs wisely optimize for the general case, and the general user is not savvy enough to protect their devices from attacks on well-known ports.
Thus, since SSH can be used to do Bad Things, and it's easily blocked, the easiest way to do it is just block port 22.
It's easy to block all ports except 80 and 8080 for regular web page access.
Why would this commonly used port be blocked by Google Fiber?
Whether a public library, a restaurant, or any other venue, it's not their responsibility to help anyone do crime.
And they need to protect themselves from visitors who want to do crime.
Blocking the most-attacked ports such as SSH (22) and the SMB & NetBIOS ports is the right thing to do on behalf of most customers.