Of course, all this assumes that you either A) have (or can acquire) a registered domain with DNS service through a major DNS provider, or B) can spare a static IP for a locally-hosted DNS server.
Checking these against your DNS data will allow you to identify untracked and missing servers.
I want to make a "dynamic hosts-file server", in lack of a better name, i want to make a machine that asks my other machines what their name is and then lists it in the DNS or some hosts directory.
For a local DNS server, there are tutorials out there detailing various Bash and/or Perl scripts to run on the client to achieve the same effect.
DHCP can serve static IP addresses, but would require you to configure your servers to use DHCP instead of configured fixed addresses.
If you don't control the DHCP server, you would have to configure the clients to update the DNS server themselves.
This works if you have DDNS as a service (e.g., Dyn) or with a local DNS server (using, say, bind9).
In the latter case, it's a (fairly) simple integration between dhcpd and bind.
In the former case, most routers I've seen have some built-in interface for updating DDNS services; if your DHCP server is not a router, you can always try ddclient.
If your servers have fixed addresses, the standard practice is to list them in the internal DNS file.
If you control the DHCP server, you can have it use the information from a DHCP lease to update DNS records.
Using DHCP opens up the risk of man-in-the-middle attacks on your infrastructure.
There are existing auto-discovery protocols bedsides WINS.
Without some service on your servers, you will not be able to ask them their name.
I'm on square one here so first of all i just need a push in the right direction, maybe getting to know a few of the terms used for a usable google query.
Tools like arpwatch allow you to track which IP addresses are in use, and can be used to discover IP address conflicts.
As joeqwerty mentioned, you seem to be asking for dynamic DNS (DDNS).
Depending on what you control in this setup, it could be relatively simple to configure.
Configuring fixed addresses for servers is considered best practice.
You can use nmap to discover servers and services.
Avahi/Bonjour works cross platform an allows servers to announce their presence and the services they provide.
This requires an extra step when you provision and decommission servers.
Any help, notes, terms, small blows in the sails would be nice!