The numeric ("quantitative") variables are distinguished from "categorical" variables that assume values in a prescribed finite set.
It shouldn't be so difficult to come to a point where she really wants to use arrays.
I am 100% sure that there will be something for which she needed linear algebra to solve it.
Decoupling of harmonic oscillators for example, or just any eigenvalue problem in quantum mechanics.
Statisticians conduct trials consisting of observations.
I would explain to your student how the vast majority of statistical observation is in fact naturally in array form.
If she has any spreadsheets to show you you can find many examples of arrays in her data and show how the calculations she has already done to analyze them are in fact array-based calculations as suggested in another answer with means.
Anyway, the variables typically go across the columns and the observations go down the rows of the table.
Just ask her what she has done so far in the mathematics/physics part of her degree.
I had a student some time back who also really struggled with concepts like this, but who was interested in research in psychology which for her was largely about statistics.
An array-based language like R, but really any language, will lend itself to some calculations that can be a real pain to do in something like Excel.
Then ask her to write a program which does these calculations without using arrays.
Find those examples and I think you will have made some progress.
The R programming language/environment is based entirely on arrays for this reason and many of its most important statistical functions are optimized to work on "columns" of a table: that is, arrays.
Statistical data is nothing but arrays, or perhaps tables, that is, 2-dimensional arrays.
If she doesn't give up after declaring 100 variables with distinct names, then she will definitely give up at the first instance of matrix multiplication, when she realizes, that she can't loop over those 100 names and that she has to write out every arithmetic operation one by one.
An observation is a simultaneous measurement of some variables.