I keep the displays preference in the menu bar (there's an option in the displays preference for this).
For example, I have a macbook pro and a 27" Cinema display.
When you run multiple displays of different resolutions on Mac, Mac appears to "pretend" that all of the monitors actually have the same vertical resolution by creating "virtual" display realestate to fill in the gaps between each of the smaller displays and the largest display.
I once had a weird case where I can only see the application window when switching between spaces.
Then whenever the monitor arrangement changes and OS X doesn't detect it you can click here and choose 'Detect Displays'.
I knew it's somewhere to the left of the screen; I tried many methods described here with no avail.
From there, I discovered that by moving my laptop screen back down to align with the external monitor at the bottom, the system was kind enough to force the now hidden window to the top left of my Cinema display.
I run my Cinema display at its native resolution, 2560x1440, and the my macbook at the far-right, "more space" setting (it's smaller than 1440, but it doesn't tell me exactly what it is).
HOWEVER, I discovered that if I rearranged things such that the top edges of my displays were aligned, my missing application window was quietly waiting for me at the top-left of the laptop monitor space, thinking it was on-screen and visible the whole time.
Change it back to what you had an all off screen windows should appear.
You can go to System Preferences > Displays and change the resolution to something lower, say 1024 x 768 or 800 x 600 and it will cause windows to reset to that smaller display size.
Eventually, I rearranged my main and external display in display preference so that on is to the upper left of the other, and eventually the window showed up.
When I do this, there is a section above the macbook screen that is shown as blank or empty in the arrangement window.
Because of how I have my monitor and laptop situated on my desk, I use the "arrangement" tab in system preferences to align the bottom edge of the displays.
Alternatively you could script that action in Automator and assign it a shortcut key yourself.