Be sure to use the right disk path, or VERY bad things can happen, you can rewrite your hard drive.
I’ve created two DVDs: one with the Windows trial ISO, and one with the ISO converted to a .crt file.
If you do NOT want a virtual instance of Windows and you want to boot into Windows 8, you will have to use bootcamp.
To help your issue without using Parallels, try using a USB drive.
I might be wrong, been a while since my macbook died on me.
and note all the disks that show up (ex: /dev/disk0; /dev/disk1).
where PATH_TO_ISO is the path to the ISO file, and DISK_PATH is the path to the disk.
Use its path (ex: /dev/disk2) as DISK_PATH in the dd command.
(It also doesn’t detect the partition I’ve set aside for Windows, but I guess that’s because it’s formatted as ExFAT).
I have no idea if this would work, so do more research on it, but dd is how you would install Linux from an ISO to an external drive, so it may be similar.
I had Vista installed a little while back, but think I installed this when my iMac was running Snow Leopard (it’s since been upgraded to Mavericks).
Disc Utils should be enough to burn a functional DVD, you can use Toast Titanium.
If you did not create the disk with the ISO using a direct byte for byte copy, it won't work.
I’m therefore out of ideas as to what to do, in that I’ve resorted to trying to install Windows in a VM.
Never use /dev/disk0 or /dev/disk1, that is your HDD or SSD.
So I’ve tried re-booting my iMac and holding down the Alt key, but it doesn’t pick up the optical drive; it just displays two hard drive partitions (Macintosh HD and Recovery).
I’m having difficulties installing a Windows 8.1 trial on my late-2009 iMac.
In the pass the only things that caused this behavior was:
Boot Camp complains that this Mac can only run Windows 7, and also recognises neither of these as installation disks; it just keeps telling me to insert the installation disk and wait a few moments.
Try it again using the disk created by the dd command.
A free alternative is VirtualBox although requires more computer knowledge.
If you don't want to have a separate OS, Parallels Desktop for Mac puts a virtual window on your Mac Desktop with Windows.
If this does not work, you could try installing rEFInd boot manager, which may aid you in booting from the partition bootcamp creates, but will not allow you to boot windows without a hybrid MBR (bootcamps way of allowing windows, which only accepts MBR partitions, to boot on Mac disks, which are often GPT partition schemes).
The command takes a long time to run, but you can check its progress by pressing ctrl+t.
But in case you can use VM Windows, or an actual Windows machine use Rufus.
This isn’t ideal, as I wanted to be able to boot into Windows and use it just as I would OS X, not through virtualisation on an OS X desktop.
C is gonna give you a menu with everything bootable.
There is a possibility to format an external drive (USB or HDD) to MBR partition scheme (you can even use DiskUtility for this), and install windows on it using the previous dd command.
I do not know how to do that on Windows, but I'm sure there's a way, but on Linux or Mac OS it is easy, run this in a shell:
Also i think the key you should press on boot, is "C" and not "Option".
To find the disk path on Mac OS, take out all USBs and disks, then run