You will use Firefox 3 with your old profile and Firefox 4 with the new one.
A much better way of doing this, while at the same time helping the community, is presented in this article : Test and Report Add-on Compatibility in Firefox.
My temporaty solution atm: I backup (snapshots) the whole profiles and keep the previous Firefox package.
Even if it is marked as incompatible and disabled by FF4, it may still in actual fact be perfectly compatible.
It was aborting frequently, so finally I just went back to FF3.
If you notice that one of your add-ons doesn't seem to be working the same way it did in previous versions of the application, just open the Add-ons Manager and click Compatibility next to that add-on to send a report to Mozilla.
Or perhaps you could check out the Add-on Compatibility Center.
There is a report there that lists the add-ons that make up 95% of all installed add-ons sorted by popularity.
This is not a one-click solution but in my opinion it's the most flexible: I would install Firefox 4 in a different directory than Firefox 3, then make a copy of the profile.
You can re-enable the check again at any time by setting it to ‘true’.
I haven't tried it but this might be what you are looking for.
Once done, extensions will no longer check to see if they are compatible with the version of Firefox you are running.
Exit, open the folder where profiles are stored (this depends on the OS you're using and the specific version) and copy the old profile over the new one.
Enter the name as ‘extensions.checkCompatibility’ and the value as ‘false’.
First a remark: I suggest in any case to wait for FF 4.1, because version 4.0 is quite unstable.
https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/is-it-compatible/
Like @Rabarberski I find the Add-on Compatibility Report for Firefox <release> not usable to keep my workflow sane.
Firefox 4 will check add-on compatibility as soon as it's started.
The operation can be done in about 10-15 minutes if you've never done it before.
To Force Firefox Extension Compatibility, version check is turned off in about:config : Right-click on the list and choose ‘New’ (see first if it is already there), followed by ‘Boolean’.
That way you could check out Firefox 4 and its compatibility with your add-ons without uninstalling your current version of Firefox.
it was not validated and ceased to work since FF v30.
This allows me to blindly update (Mozilla way), and downgrade to the previous release in case of trouble with limited hassle.
To make a copy of the profile, just start Firefox 3 with the profile manager enabled (if you don't know how see the Mozilla site), then create a new profile.
I believe that the new Javascript engine still has problems.
You can of course also report that an extension is working perfectly well.
Now to address your question : There is no sure way to know if an add-on is compatible with FF4.
One installs the Add-on Compatibility Reporter, which enables all your incompatible extensions for you to test whether they still work.
Also, here is a question asking for more information on this subject on Mozilla support
You just have to try and see, and the simplest way is to turn off the check.