Both ESX and HYPER-V SCVMM have the abilty to deploy loads of machines quickly so actually buidling the new VMs isn't painful, its the re-install of the apps on them.
Neither of these issues caused us any real headache when moving virtual on any of our boxes though and I would expect the same thing for you.
System Center Virtual Machine Manager does Physical-2-Virtual conversions (and Virtual-2-Physical as well) to Hyper-V, as well as converting VMWare VM images to HyperV.
Any consolidation or virtulization effort should warrant redeploying the machines so you can get clean installs on the "new" hardware.
And they all worked perfectly after the P2V conversion.
I would expect that you would have these same issues with Hyper-V as the same underlying principals to virtualization apply.
Notable issues there are missing and/or different drivers for disks, NICs etc.
I have not done this using Hyper-V, but I have done multiple P2V's with VMware to ESX.
(This was a P2V migration to ESX, but the same should apply)
I was going to post this as a comment to one of the above answers, but as two of them tackle the same subject, I thought I had better post this as an actual answer.
Windows 2003 systems, old developer machines when they received new hardware, specific environments.
The physical system is left as-is so you can return to it if you need to, and you get a nice VM to use in its place.
http://www.microsoft.com/systemcenter/virtualmachinemanager/en/us/default.aspx
There are also some drivers that are loaded on the physical system that I removed from the Device manager after the migration.
I have used SCVMM to image working, crufted up legacy systems and it has worked perfectly every single time - no issues, no problems, it has simply worked and left me with a Hyper-V image that has soldiered on.
But yes, if you use SCVMM the process is harmless, simple and painless.
I was even impressed that a HP OEM Windows XP image only required the XP key to be reentered, and it validated fine.
These were the serial and parallel ports as well as some Dell RAID controllers.
I haven't don it to Hyper-v and I susually recommend against P2V unless you have some software that is a real pain to re-install or software that is CPUID licensed.
I personally haven't used this, but from what I understand it allows P2V conversions.