Tin whiskers don't have to be airborne to damage equipment, as they are typically already growing in an environment where they can produce short circuits.
Generally coding mistakes do not self repair, so over time these increase making the likelihood of a malfunction more and more likely.
(Though if the system is old enough there likely is no current browser that will work with it.)
Due to thermic stress on the parts, like turning the computer on and off, putting heavy usage on certain parts for short intervals etc.
They probably will make it easier for oxydation or other reactions (plastic will lose its softeners over time and crack) to get to critical parts.
Unmentioned in the existing good answers are electrolytic capacitors, which vary widely in quality and life-time and whose failure can bollox the performance of your power supply or the time constants of connections between components.
Pure Silicium is very prone to oxidation as far as I heard.
#4 obviously can be fixed, at least to a degree, by fixing the software.
The first two are somewhat inevitable and generally can't be fixed without replacing major components.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whisker_%28metallurgy%29
These little guys have been blamed for a number of "lemon" laptop models and high failure rates in other equipment over the years.
3) "Transient" problems -- oxidized printed circuit contacts, dust accumulating and blocking cooling.
No-one has yet mentioned software degradation that is unconnected with hardware or environmental issues:
In computer disk drives they can break off and cause head crashes or bearing failures.
Tiny cracks will build which can later damage electric connections.
4) Software problems -- viruses, corrupted data, the simple problem that new web pages are too complex for old browsers to handle, etc.
[4] At frequencies above 6 GHz or in fast digital circuits, tin whiskers can act like miniature antennas, affecting the circuit impedance and causing reflections.
(One particularly irritating problem is that M$ always arranges it such that new OSes won't network with older ones.
2) Electro-mechanical problems, primarily in disk drives -- loss of lubrication, accumulated wear in bearings, etc.
[6] Research has also identified a particular failure mode for tin whiskers, where in high power components a short circuiting tin whisker is ionized into a plasma that is capable of conducting hundreds of amperes of current, massively increasing the damaging effect of the short circuit.
1) Electrical problems due to hardware age -- failed capacitors, "tin whiskers", cracked PC traces, et al.
Most applications and operating systems have faulty code and over time corruptions can occur at driver, app, OS or other level purely because of coding mistakes.
2b) Failed fans -- power supply fans, CPU fans, video chip fans, etc
#3 can usually be corrected by disassembling and cleaning things (once again, if overheating hasn't caused permanent damage).
Sometimes you can circumvent this, but beyond a point it's not worth the effort.)
Replacing faulty code with new versions can and should help, but often upgrades and updates are not perfect, so legacy code may be left (it may sometimes conflict with the newer version).
However, #2b is often relatively cheap to fix, if overheating hasn't caused permanent damage.
All those are more or less speculative, but googles paper on harddrives is a good read on the thermal and mechanical topic.
Tin whiskers often cause failures in relays, and have been found upon examination of failed relays in nuclear power facilities.
Tin whiskers (accelerated by autocatalytic "tin pest" expansion) caused the failure of the Galaxy IV satellite in 1998.
[7] The increase in use of pure tin alloys in electronics due to the RoHS directive drove JEDEC and IPC to release a tin whisker acceptance testing standard and mitigation practices guideline intended to help manufacturers reduce the risk of tin whiskers in lead-free products.
[5] Pacemakers have been recalled due to tin whiskers.
Another possibility is mechanical stress inside harddrives or optical drives and maybe even non stable electric input through the power supply unit.