Are you asking if someone knows you're watching a particular kind of video?
However doing this in near realtime requires an insain amount of computing power far more then a decent size server can deliver, something along the lines of a HPC GPU cluster.
They also told me that it doesn't happen in real time yet
Too unreliable and will require way too much processing power.
TL:DR-no, routers and firewalls aren't this sophisticated, or we'd have far better filters.
So i was wondering can anyone confirm/deny the fact or provide with links on how it works.
I don't really know if this question belongs to this site - but i thought this is a place where i can find my answer consider the type of people who view this :)
Someone told me that deep packet inspection works on the content of the video being said - aka if i am watching a video they can get the content/text and filter/censor it based on that.
If this level of sophistication were available then we'd have far better content filters in schools.
With enough computing power it is possible to do litteraly anything with deep packet inspection.
But your activity can be monitored if someone were interested.
So, deep packet inspection CAN work on video, but for a censoring tool it is simply not feasible at the moment.
Problem is - IT NEEDS A LOT MORE PROCESSING POWER.
Any network traffic that's not encrypted can be intercepted and monitored, and/or the source can be easily tracked (it's not hard to figure out what someone on the network is watching if there's a gig of data streaming from an IP belonging to hustler.com).
But the firewall doesn't know what is in the video.
For example see ever last image, video, or text sent across the wire aslong as it is "in the clear" meaning not SSL or other strong crypto.
This is like saying "can SSL be cracked" (yes, in theory) and then saying "can a spy tool watch all SSL connections running out of a country in real time (no, unless the country spends thousands of billions on computers just for that).
The cost of doing this would be in the mid 6 figures GBP.