So you tell your friends "Look me up in the Acme phone book."
When her website was ready, I hosted it on dreamhost and pointed to Dreamhost's nameservers for the domain in the dotster account.
MX records stayed the same as before, and everything worked fine for a while.
But eventually, that information expired, so when they tried to look the information up again--this time from the new server--they got "nothing", so the mail started bouncing.
error that the other server returned was: 554 554 5.7.1 : Recipient address rejected: Access denied (state 14)".
When a DNS lookup is done (in this case, to see where to send mail), that lookup is done from the nameservers.
She wanted to start using email for that domain before we had her website up, so I set her up through Google Apps mail, and added the appropriate MX records to her dotster account.
2) This is because the nameserver records for your client domains were cached for a while (typically for several hours, possibly up to several days--the timeout is configurable).
Domain hosted at dotster pointed to Dreamhost nameservers for web hosting).
It's the same as a phone book--except imagine that you can only list your phone number in one phone book at a time.
So when they want to contact you, they look your phone number up in the Acme phone book, find your listing, and call you.
:) (Server-related stuff generally stumps me more than anything else).
So if your nameservers don't have the MX record listed, the lookup will result in nothing.
When I did a traceroute, the MX records didn't show, but the text record did (also set at dotster).
I am a front-end web designer/developer, so keep that in mind in terms of how much you assume I already know.
So I went over to Dreamhost and added the MX records there.
2) I'm also pretty sure her email was working for a good amount of time after I pointed the nameservers to dreamhost.
1) Do the MX records have to be set at the place where the nameservers are pointed to?
I'm a bit confused about what has happened with one of my client's email accounts.
But then if you move your listing to the "OtherGuys Phone Book", but don't tell OtherGuys what your phone number is, when your friends look you up in OtherGuys, they won't see your phone number--because it's listed in the Acme book instead.
This means (roughly) that anyone who did an MX lookup prior to you switching nameservers, kept the old information in memory for a while, so they wouldn't have to look it up again.