the service is on Amazon Linux AMI 2015.03 (HVM), SSD Volume Type - ami-1ecae776
Re-start the mongod instance with the --auth command line option or, if using a configuration file, the security.authorization setting.
I want it because I configured my mongo services to uses authentication connection.
Once created, you must authenticate as the user administrator to create additional users as needed.
Clients that connect to this instance must now authenticate themselves as a MongoDB user.
The problem above only happen when I enable the auth configuration and I need it.
For example, connect a mongo shell to the instance.
So, How do I create an user with admin permission for any database.
Clients can only perform actions as determined by their assigned roles.
This user can administrate user and roles such as: create users, grant or revoke roles from users, and create or modify customs roles.
If you enable access control before creating any user, MongoDB provides a localhost exception which allows you to create a user administrator in the admin database.
Here is the following procedure through which you can Enable Auth.
Connect and authenticate as the user administrator
If I want to execute a dump of my data I have to use this authentication parameters.
Specify additional command line options as appropriate to connect the mongo shell to your deployment, such as --host.
For example, the following creates the user myUserAdmin in the admin database:
You can create users either before or after enabling access control.
Start a mongo shell with the -u <username>, -p <password>, and the --authenticationDatabase <database> command line options:
As per MongoDB BOL Enable Auth With access control enabled, ensure you have a user with userAdmin or userAdminAnyDatabase role in the admin database.
I am trying to create a simple user with the rights permission to access to any database and can do any actions.
First adds a user administrator to a MongoDB instance running without access control and then enables access control.
For example here in the admin database, add a user with the userAdminAnyDatabase role.
When I trying to execute the createUser command I got this error:
Switch to the authentication database (in this case, admin), and use  db.auth(, ) method to authenticate: