The first boot is always great, I have the image on my screen (HDMI to VGA plug).
I normally only poweroff when performing some "surgery" on the Pi.
NOTE my experience, while uncommon, is NOT specific to Stretch, as I have noticed it on earlier releases.
My conclusion is that the videocore (which is independent of the CPU) is continuing to function.
I have occasionally noticed that the display continues to function, indicating that the system has experienced some problems during shutdown.
This view is supported by visible error messages on screen after shutdown.
PS2: I have a 2A plug, and it have never been like this with Jessie.
PS: I know there is already a similar question (Screen won't boot on second startup) BUT there is no answer, not even a hint.
I now always use poweroff on the rare occasions when I need to shutdown one of my Pi and have not experienced this problem recently.
It start on a bad resolution, and I need to reboot it to get it back to normal, but at least it works..
My raspberry pi 2 had a problem sort of like this.
As the videocore is responsible for Pi booting this may explain the problems.
This is not strictly an answer, because I frankly don't know, but my observations.
I have used Etcher to flash the SD card, and I've tried to download again the image.
This is only obvious with a connected hdmi screen.
For now, I fixed it by forcing the HDMI in the config.txt file.
I think that you should either and rewrite the image to it or buy a new SD card that is used in car cameras.
I've been trying to use Stretch on my raspberry pi 3 for a few weeks already, and it seems that I have some trouble for starting the Pi.
I installed Stretch on a 32 Gb SD card, but I also tried with some 8Gb and the result is the same.
I can reach the raspberry on SSH, and then reboot it, and the monitor will be on.
If I turn it down with the command line shutdown or with the shutdown menu, it won't boot with the image.
Shutting down the Pi, using any of the halt poweroff or shutdown commands SHOULD do the same thing.
If I use the command reboot, it will reboot perfectly.