In addition old HDDs have higher failure risk during RAID5/6 rebuilt.
Also RAID6 was not as common 9 years ago as disks were smaller, so there was less perceived need.
While I would gave put / on the LVM as well, its not unreasonable to keep it separate to allow for easier setup.
For backups – it can be ok, for user shares and another workload is questionable.
I'd usually recommend relying on hardware raid where its available for stability and performance reasons.
Maybe they knew LVM really well and just stuck to what they knew.
To avoid that, another software-based RAID0 layer should be put on top of the mirrored pairs - either via plain md or the newer striped LVM setup.
From the specifications you posted above, it seems that the Areca controller does not support RAID10 or other nested RAID modes.
For this very reason, in performance critical setups I generally use RAID10, or stripe over mirrored pairs (note: RAID 0+1, or mirror over striped pairs, should be avoided due to lower resilience).
However, RAID6 comes with significant performance penalty especially during a rebuild.
We can only speculate, but this setup seems entirely reasonable to me.
Without specifics on the make/model we don't know if this was done due to a limitation of the hardware or something, but if ont I'd be surprised it it was due to anything other than a misunderstanding of the available RAID options or a lack of understanding of how to set it up.
It's true, but together with larger capacity and guaranteed 2 disk redundancy, you’ll get much slower performance on random write operations compared to RAID10 (the best setup in your case on my opinion) .
However, with so many relatively big disks, I strongly suggest avoiding RAID5 due to high chances of second drive failure during a rebuild.
If the old sysadmin decided to avoid RAID6 due to its performance and long rebuild time implications, concatenating the individual arrays in a bigger volume group was the simpler approach.
That said, it is not the better performing approach: as the arrays are just concatenated, the low queue depth streaming performance (ie: single process sequential read/write) is going to be bound to that of a single mirrored pair.
Premise: I agree that a RAID6 array would have made a lot of sense.