If you have your own domain, it is easy to switch to a new email address under the same domain.
First of all the infrastructure for outgoing and incoming emails may be separate, that makes it problematic for the infrastructure for incoming emails to always know about every Message-ID which has gone through the infrastructure for outgoing emails.
The problem with spam messages using a spoofed source address causing bounces coming back to the legitimate address is at least in principle easy to solve.
While there are ways to set up email so that the sender can be verified (such as the difital signing mentioned in other answers), they are not in general use.
Unfortunately it is a simple matter to spoof the From: address in an email, and that's all it takes.
Then notify everyone on her contact list, and stop using the old email but continue to monitor it for incoming messages from people who missed the memo.
My best recommendation for such useless bounces is to treat them as spam, even if they originate from an otherwise legitimate mail system.
But that's a bridge you can cross if it should ever come to that (which I consider unlikely).
This is not different from regular paper mail where I also can put a destination address on the front of the envelope and a (any!)
Things are more difficult if you believe that someone is specifically targeting your wife, trying to impersonate her, damage her reputation, etc.
If you do not control the domain, then changing the email address is not as easy, and you have little influence on whether DNS records are used to limit the ability to spoof the domain in outgoing emails.
And mail providers are also starting to implement safety checks for communication between mail servers.
I include the date of first communication with the contact in the mail address, such that it could look like kasperd@mdgwh.04.dec.2015.kasperd.net if I were to write an email to a new contact today.
My approach to that is to use my own domain and a separate email address under that domain for each contact I communicate with.
What can be done depends on how much of the infrastructure you have control over, and whether you are using your own domain name or simply have an address under a domain controlled by somebody else.
Bounces always have an empty MAIL From address, other emails never have an empty MAIL From address.
Additionally you can set up DNS records to tell the world that all emails from your domain is supposed to be digitally signed.
For example I have seen providers sending bounces containing no information whatsoever about the original email which was bounced.
But mail is build on the old protocols where everybody behaved and cooperated nicely.
A few of my most regular contacts know that if they want me to open their messages they have to say something in the email that no spammer would ever know, for example "Yes, Dennis this is really ______ and your dog's name is ______"  I say something similar to them.
Bounces can be told apart from other emails by the MAIL From address.
That approach obviously isn't for everybody, but for me it surely helps know exactly who has been leaking a list of email addresses where one of mine is on.
It also means I can close the individual addresses such that only the person who leaked my address has to update their contact information for me.
Any bounced message which does not contain a Message-ID you have previously send can be send straight to the spam folder or be rejected at receiving time (which has the nice benefit of pushing the problem one step closer to the source).
Remember that whoever has obtained the list of email addresses can put any of the addresses as source address and any of the addresses as destination address.
Stolen addresses are widely used as cover by spammers, and most people know to ignore obvious spam that pretends to come from an acquaintance.
Thus unless you have additional information you can't be sure the leak even happened from your own system.
It might not be ideal, but If I were you I'd shut down my account and start a new one.
However, you can add a digital signature to proof that you are the sender (see PGP and Xen's answer).
It may be any of your contacts who leaked the list of addresses including yours.
Now if everyone would adopt SPF that would be a huge help.
Telling everyone my new address and to blacklist the old.
Your specific question about validating email senders, and what one can do when email is being sent in your name.
If your wife's stolen contacts included a lot of casual connections, onetime clients, mailing lists etc., this is a non-starter: if the recipients find the faked emails a hassle, the last thing they want is to be asked to install special software on their computers.
So if MAIL From is empty - and the DATA does not contain a Message-ID you previously send, the mail can be safely rejected.
The more you can figure out about which addresses are on the leaked list and which are not, the better you will be able to figure where it was leaked from.
If that's all that's going on, the solution is clearly for your wife to get a new email, preferably one that is easily distinguishable from the old one; if possible, combine it with spelling her full name differently, e.g., add a middle name or job title.
All bounces need to include the Message-ID of the original message somewhere - otherwise the bounce is completely useless anyway, because that is what tells you which message got bounced.
As Freeman said...let all regular email correspondents know that all future email from her will have the phrase he mentioned or something similar.
Nothing stops me from writing an email with your address as a sender.
In that case, a new email will be quickly adopted by the attacker (since your wife will not be keeping it a secret).
(SPF, DKIM, and DMARC are the terms to search for if this is the approach you want to take.)
It might be you have already done this and concluded that the leak must have originated from your contact list since none of your contacts would have known all of the addresses confirmed to have been leaked.
You cannot expect everybody to verify these signatures, so even if you do setup DNS records indicating that email from your domain must be signed, there will still be abusers sending unsigned emails claiming to be from your domain and receivers accepting those unsigned emails.
You can record the Message-ID of all emails you are sending.
Additionally some providers insist on sending bounces that do not conform with common sense.