My own guess is that many ISP's that happen to be cable providers who deploy IPv6 will block it at their border.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_address#IPv6
I must correct a assumption you seem to have made here.
So they simply do not permit it through their firewalls/routers.
Multicast sources do not have a lot of control which destinations see their packets, it is quite possible data transmitted via multicast reaches destionations not available via unicast.
It is simply blocked or not configured in many places.
Only time will tell us if people actually permit multicast through their networks.
http://ipv6friday.org/blog/2011/12/ipv6-multicast/
Just use FF02:0:0:0:0:1:FF00::/104, and other 24 bits are the same as in the Unicast address.
IPv6 address allocation from 2000::/3 decides who can use which unicast address.
You confuse two things in my opinion: multicast routing and IPv6 address allocation.
It may be cynical of me to think this, but they have a vested interest in keeping the costs HIGH for their content competitors.
Multicast routing depends on all routers on the path between the multicast source and you forwarding multicast packets to the destinations which want to receive a certain multicast group.
This has nothing to do with any allocation, just with multicast routing being enabled.
The standards allow global multicast routing, but AFAIK currently most ISPs restrict multicast only for their use (IPTV etc.)
So who can use which IPv6 multicast group is for as far as I know only defined in rfc3307.
IPv6 certainly is capable just like IPv4 of having Multicast work globally.
I think IPv6 multicast should be routable over the Internet, in contrast to the IPv4 multicast that isn't routable over the Internet.
There is "Solicited multicast" in the IPv6 for applications.
In an uncontrolled network with full multicast network any source system can send to any multicast group without any controls, and all systems which have joined that group will receive the data.
These addresses automatically apeared when on the some interface is created Unicast address.
v6 multicast would allow HBO or any other streaming video provider to transmit one v6 stream to the Ipv6 world over a multicast channel and dramatically cut costs.
I suspect this is because  multicast is not well understood, and many people believe they do not need it.
If all the routers between you and your destination support it, then Multicast can certainly work over the IPv4 Internet.