I am trying this on my Surface Pro 6, could it be something with the fact that I'm using it on a surface pro?
Unetbootin says it does, but Live USBs I have created with it and with persistence set on, fail to provide persistence.
https://howtotechglitz.com/how-to-create-a-ubuntu-usb-live-drive-with-persistent-storage/
However, none of the methods I've tried (Rufus, Live USB Creator, etc) keep the data saved after booting the drive.
Once done boot Ubuntu on your Surface - which I also used - and follow the instructions in the articles below to add mkusb, once that is done plug in designated usb for live usb persistent storage and use mkusb software to set it up.
In other words, if you want to create an Ubuntu media with persistence, you should use one the Ubuntu daily-live ISOs from here along with Rufus 3.7 from here (currently in BETA version).
I had the same problem and found that to create a persistent storage for a live usb successfully you first need to partition your hard drive and install Ubuntu on that (I've found this makes Windows far harder - though not impossible - to access, though I may have made a mistake in boot order or with the partition as I have to constantly put in my recovery key to get to Windows).
There's another Windows based app which claims it offers persistence for Ubuntu only, YUMI, but I have not tested that yet.
Also you need to use Rufus 3.7 or later (if you use Rufus), as Rufus 3.6, which introduced the ability to create a persistent partition, does not add the persistent kernel option to the GRUB/ISOlinux config files, precisely because of the bug above.
As noted in the article linked in your question, the current Rufus version (3.6) does not offer this feature.
https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/14912/create-a-persistent-bootable-ubuntu-usb-flash-drive/
Therefore, on the web page you cited, follow the lengthy process within Ubuntu titled How to Make a Persistent Ubuntu USB Drive on Ubuntu which I know works, try experimenting with YUMI, or experiment with the pre-production version of Rufus as Akeo, the developer of Rufus,  kindly mentioned above.
I've tried different methods to create a live persistent copy of Ubuntu 18.04 in my USB drive.
Here's the last method I tried: https://www.howtogeek.com/howto/14912/create-a-persistent-bootable-ubuntu-usb-flash-drive/
There is a bug with all versions prior to that that prevent Ubuntu from properly using a persistent partition residing on the same drive.