In any shop, code quality will be a bigger factor then the server/OS.
For a given budget, you may get a better deal from putting the dollars to grade 'A' components in a generic build than a grade 'B' from a specialist.
Secondly, hardware performance increases quickly over time, so what you buy as the optimum hardware this year will be past its peak in a year, and considerably dated in three years.
I can't confirm that it meets your list of requirements, though.
I worked at a place that had decided, in the early 90s, Mac's were the best desktop machine.
Finally, to some degree you can often improve performance by throwing more (or more expensive) hardware at the bottlenecks.
No amount of optimization and integration will save you from poor indexing, for example.
I'm assuming you want discussion rather than answers... but my answer is "No" anyway
I'm told that this platform grants a level of efficiency and performance beyond the wildest dreams of users of any of the "mainstream" architectures of Windows/Linux/Solaris/etc.
If not, it is a judgement call whether database software will run faster on a generic OS built by the best OS people or a dedicated OS built by the 'lower division'.
Obviously performance isn't the only criteria for purchase.
As does the financial security of the supplier / line of business.
The integration between Oracle and Solaris is tighter than most.
Few buyers would be upgrading their hardware that frequently, so buying a database platform to gain an edge in hardware performance seems short-sighted.
Firstly, while SQL Server may be dedicated to the Windows OS on x86 hardware, neither the hardware nor software is specially designed to run a database platform.
It has always been my strong conviction that a large-scale multi-user DBMS should reside, stand-alone, on a dedicated server or clusters, with no other unecessary apps, processes or services which could steal resources from the DBMS.
In the case of SQL Server, I'd argue that, rather than optimize for performance, it has been optimized for administration and integration.
Would the latest Sun/Oracle system fall into this category?..
Thirdly, if a database company is building an OS dedicated to its database, can it get the best OS people ?
In a big corporate shop, every Oracle, Sybase and SQL Server installation may use the lowest common denominator: the SAN.
The database is very tightly integrated with the OS.
Would it make sense to accomplish this kind of architecture with other DBMS' like INFORMIX?
This may itself be transactionally replicated off site.
I also believe that the DBMS should be tightly integrated to an OS which has been tailored to provide the DBMS with the maximum performance possible!
I don't have any experience with it personally, but a lot of users of the System i platform swear by it, and it seems to meet your desire for tight integration.
Furthermore, while SQL Server would be designed to make the best of Windows, it doesn't follow it is primarily designed for performance.
Uptime, skills availability etc all come into play.
Proprietary systems such as Pick, Terradata and others were designed with this goal.
Generic is going to be cheaper because, the larger the customer base, the more the base costs can be spread (and the more price competition comes into play between suppliers).
It supports DB2 for i, which isn't exactly compatible with DB2 UDB but it's close enough.
They were stuck with a bunch of machines with no upgrade path.