We use it on our own production infrastructure, naturally, but more importantly, so do our our 500+ corporate customers (number as of Dec '10).
In your testing, are you using the exact same hardware as you are in the DC?
How much time have you then lost by re-imaging the system, assuming you are fortunate enough to have a PXE-type recovery option?
One sysadmin asks the same question on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux user mailing list, and is met with a number of answers, a few of which are excerpted below:
Even in a five-nines setup, "scheduled maintenance" is often a clause in an SLA that allows for this kind of downtime.
If you have an HA setup, then switch to the failover, install the kernel on one box, reboot, and repeat on the other.
Also, as mentioned above, remotely experimenting with a technology like this could be a catastrophe if it goes wrong on multiple servers.
If you can't afford even five minutes of downtime on a box, then you need a failover setup anyway.
One concern expressed by folks is not about the stability, but rather its integration with existing auditing and monitoring tools:
Ksplice (the kernel mod) is really only useful if you have ksplice-usable patches for your kernel, which you're probably never going to see unless you have a support contract with Ksplice (the company).
So, while ksplice (the tool) is reasonably mature, that's really only relevant if you're considering using Ksplice (the company) for your patch management.
It is a long time ago but what Ksplice can do for you is a lot ....
What plays nice on one machine may not play nice on another.
Kernel security updates are necessary, of course, and should be patched ASAP, but how much time/effort/worry does this save you vs simply installing a new kernel and rebooting?
I've been using Ksplice on my home server (where uptime isn't critical but is a nice-to-have).
While it is a novel technology, I don't see much pragmatic use for it yet.
As you might expect, this is now an area in which we're investing heavily.
Ksplice is an open-source kernel extension, but bear in mind that while the software is free and available for anyone to use, it's created specifically by and for a company that does Linux patch management (also called "Ksplice").
Haven't had any problems with it at all - occasional updates through Apt to the client, never any problems with the kernel updates themselves, and no (noticeable) instability.
My initial response would be something along the lines of "why do i need this?"