I need ideas and/or advice, not necessarily "how-to"s.
No one bothers to tell me changes have occurred until something downstream breaks.
I have tables whose data has some sort of relationship to each other.
The powers-that-be want the historical records attached to the company's name at that period in time.
I hope that I've made the issues clear and understandable.
Also, I need suggestions on how to keep track of when changes are made to the production database.
For example: Let's say I have a "Caller" table that contains the caller's name and the company that they work for, and I have a "Company" table.
What I need is ideas on how to design the support DB.
We now have TWO records for the same company, with two PKs.
Should I have submitted this under the developers' StackOverflow?
On top of that, the Company Names may not be EXACTLY the same.
I'm really frustrated with this mess, and need a way to tame it a bit.
I need to create a database to "support" this other database.
So if "ABC Dist" changed their name to "ABC Distribution and Manufacturing" in January 2016, the powers-that-be want the records for that company before Jan 1, 2016 to have the "ABC Dist" name, while records AFTER Jan 1, 2016 to have the new name.
Do I copy company names over or just use the PK for everything?
I know that I'll have to write an ETL to keep these two databases synchronized.
Any changes or additional information that is needed that cannot go into this production database has to be housed somewhere else.
So, I need a way to keep callers associated with the correct company in the company table and a way to associate multiple lines in the same company table together (company name changes).
Normally, I would use the PK on the Company table in the Caller table as an FK.
I do not have permissions to modify this production database.
In addition to the problem listed above, sometimes companies change names.
For example: Kim Smith might have "ABC Distributing" as her company in the Caller table, while the Company table has the name as "ABC Dist".