The "Default Font" option is only for new documents or new sections.
If you want to view it in Arial Unicode MS then you will either need to change the font in the document, or create it in that font (on the other machine which exported the document).
I would suggest that you open the document in it's original form and change the font, or open it in a different program (such as the original creating program), copy it from there, and do a paste without formatting (Keep Text Only) into Word.
I changed Microsoft Word for default font Arial Unicode MS.
In order for you to see the Unicode characters such as Ć, Č, Š, Đ and Ž, or Chyrilic characters such as А, Б, Ц, Д, Е, Ф, Г, Х you need to tell the writer of the original document to use a font style that supports it, such as Arial Unicode MS.
Any older document created in anther font will open with that font.
The default font style is something you set within Word so that the next time you want to create a new document in Word the font will automatically be set to the previously specified font style and font size.
via normal.dot) will only influence new documents.
If you open a document created in a different location, it will maintain the fonts and other characteristics as it was originally created.
You can't change default font style by simply opening an existing document and changing its font style.
When I export some document from some system which is created in Lucida Sans Typewriter and open it, Word is still displaying to me that format (which is big problem for me because I can't see some special letters unless I select it and change format to Arial Unicode MS format).
By not pasting the formatting, you will retain your specified default font settings.
What kind of characters are you not able to see?...
The next time you start Word the font style and font size will be automatically set to the style and size of your choice.
So how to really change default and not to be changeable when opening from some other system?