First, by default, the adapter is set to "p2p-dev-wlan0".
Download tight vnc onto your computer and use it to connect to wifi.
If so connect your Pi to your router and find the IP address of it on the routers webpage.
It takes about 60~90 seconds but it will connect back to WiFi (I think the LAN must be unplugged though)
Both are running the same version of OS, namely "stretch" version 9 (from the same source).
You might want to try removing all of the settings in that key except for your ssid and psk, making it look like this:
I tested plugging out the WiFi adapter and plugging it back in.
They made it so difficult to connect to WiFi and then re-connection does not work either.. or setting it up is really weird.
You might have to press C to connect to the access point.
Sometimes the extra settings can cause issues unless you specifically have needs for them.
You can rename the file to .....rules.old or simply delete:
If you were wired that will most likely kill the LAN interface and bring up wireless.
If you get a message saying no networks detected press P (must be capital so use [SHIFT]p) and type in wlan0 in the wireless interface field and press F10 to save.
I am dubious of the fact that there are 2 copies of wpa_supplicant showing up.
In particular, my wpa_supplicant.conf looks like below.
This usually means that you have either configured your device to talk to 2 SSIDs, or, you have some duplication of configurations somewhere in your networking setup.
It provides some more information in (what is referred to as) the event history of the tool.
It is also manages the connection so it will reconnect to any configured wireless access points if it drops out for whatever reason.
All configurations files are identical (as far as I can tell).
They have slightly diverged via upgrades and updates.
There are two anomalies I've detected on the problematic pi:
It may take a little bit more space on your card but I love using wicd-curses.
If you've 'cloned' one SD image from another you may have a problem with your      /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules file which is specific to the hardware.
Also, I noticed some settings in your network section of the wpa_supplicant.conf file that might not be needed, and could be causing issues.