For example, your ISP's routers would drop any such packet.
In this case static routing is probably the best option.
Also You probably want to use rip v2 because rip v1 doesn't support VLSM
But what other steps do I need to take so that packets from computer A to computer B would go through router B?
can establish a TCP connection by running nc 192.168.2.101 <port>) by means of routing, rather than merging the two networks into one (which can be easily accomplished using router B as a switch).
Now I want computer A to communicate with computer B seamlessly (e.g.
I could manually add a routing table entry in computer A so that all packets targeted to 192.168.2.0/24 go through gateway 192.168.1.102, but I would prefer an automatic way if it exist.
If You looking for more general solution it think this could be good starting point: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Routing_Information_Protocol.
For a small network like this, the RIP protocol is most appropriate to make this happen.
If RIP is properly enabled on both routers, router B will send an advertisement periodically saying that it knows how to reach the 192.168.2.0/24 network.
Router A needs to be configured to accept RIP on its LAN interface, while Router B needs to be configured to send advertisements on its WAN interface.
Based on the OP's spec, the Repeater bridge offers wired and wireless connectivity at the remote router and maintain all devices on the same LAN https://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Repeater_Bridge
So in the Router A, you could enter a route that would say something like:
For 100% automatic configuration You should have two routers with some routing protocol enabled by default but I think You should configure them anyway fore example fore security reasons.
192.168.2.0 net mask 255.255.255.0 gateway 192.168.1.102.
Most routers are shipped with NAT turned on, of which I definitely need to turn off in router B.
The first answer is also covering this, and although the automatic way of doing this might work, I would rather check this, and hope there is a possible manual routing table entry feature in your router.
You said you want the route to be discovered automatically.
Some routers will allow you to enter supplemental routes in the routing table.
This assumes that both routers support RIP, and can be configured properly.
One possible issue: the 192.168.0.0/16 network is defined as "non-routeable", meaning that packets addressed to that network should never be routed on the general internet.
But, they may be smart enough to allow routing of such packets as long as they are still within a private network.
Routers may be configured by default to not route that network.