Just when you have pushed ctrl+T look at interpolation on the top of your screen next to the boxes where you can fill in wide and height and angle.
First of all, you should not be using jpeg for screenshots, as it is best used for compressing images with graduated colour, like photographs.
Jpeg is meant for final output (if suitable), and not for working in.
If so, try converting to RGB color before rotating.
PS: The image is of a website screenshot, I'm trying to put it in a portfolio.
I had it happen with a simple 180° rotation of a dropped in PSB smartobject.
No, this is definitely a bug in photoshop that is still being occasionally exhibited by Pshop CC.
in the box next to interpolation it probably said 'nearest neighbour'  just choose any of the other options and your problem will be fixed.
This is because Photoshop is not capable of making lossless jpeg rotations.
Screenshots should be made using .png, or at least .gif.
I'm trying to create an image in Photoshop CS5, in the image I have smaller images that need to be rotated (25-40 degrees or so), but as soon as I do that they lose quality and you can see zig-zag edges and hard to read text, I made the smaller image into a smart object, but it does not fix the problem, I know it can be done because I've seen rotated screen shots online and they are of good quality, and not vector images either, so what is happening?
don't listen to all these guys about jpegs or to small formats, it has nothing to do with all of this.
Also, because of the way jpeg compresses horizontally, when the image is rotated in Photoshop there is a lot of quality loss.
Luckily dropping it in again with a PSD smart object cured the problem but there's something wrong there.
Is the image you are trying to rotate using indexed color?
If you really need to use jpeg, first change them into a lossless format before rotating, and then convert to jpeg again, or use a Photoshop plugin or application that is capable of making lossless jpeg transformations.
The image I'm trying to rotate is 1024x768 resized down as a smart object, so the quality to start with is not too great.