I do not use the designer for making changes, so I have no particular experience with script problems.
When I save changes to the model, I have it configured to automatically generate the change scripts that go along with the save.
I then fix the problem and save again (which results in another change script).
If I want to continue to use this feature, what should I be doing with the resulting script as soon as I get a failed save of the model?
What occasionally happens is that a save fails, and I still get the option to save my change script.
Database backups or database snapshots are a couple of tools that can help.
If you are not using a version that supports SNAPSHOT databases, you can do the same thing (perhaps more slowly) using BACKUP DATABASE and RESTORE DATABASE.
From your description, you wind up with two scripts, but they are not identical.
Because you reverted, you can repeat the designer steps with the database in exactly the same state as the first effort.
I then save (and source control) the resulting change script.
So this solution depends on your SQL Server edition and you rights on that server and how many people are sharing that database.
There seems to be overlap between the two scripts (the failed and the successful), but they are not identical.
First, create a SNAPSHOT database (examples from the SQL Server documenation):
However, if the designer glitched you would then use the snapshot to revert the database back to the point in time of the CREATE...SNAPSHOT.
This works great and an important piece of the process my team(s) uses.
Scenario using a snapshot database and assuming that you have full rights to do whatever you want to with the design database.
I did some years ago find that the designers were prone to errors, so I am not surprised that you have some problems.
I am a big fan of the simple diagramming tool that comes with SSMS, and use it frequently.
I'm never clear what I need to do at this point to maintain a consistent set of change scripts.
Once you have the snapshot created, make your modifications in the designer and then save your scripts.
If you are using SQL Server Enterprise or Developer editions, you have the ability to create database snapshots.