I'd suggest for lion 4GB is probably a minimum depending on what you're doing with the machine.
I should add a caution about defragging - only do it on spinning disks - not on SSDs.
The problem of the blanked app name and the sluggishness may be symptoms of the same problem.
The other thing to look at in Activity Monitor while you're there is the Disk Activity.
It took about 18hours that time my machine got sluggish!
Defragging can take a very long time on a badly fragged disk.
I had a similar performance issue because my virtual memory file was split into about 20,000 pieces all over my hard drive, and defragging felt like getting a new machine!
You should be able to spot that in Activity Monitor - look at the Real Mem column (not the virtual men column).
You say the problem happens when you switch application?
If you see an app where the Real Mem keeps going up then it might be leaking.
Also the fact that logging out and in again helps also supports the not enough RAM theory because that means you are quitting all apps - and thereby reducing the competition for RAM.
The blanking might be explained by the whole app having been swapped out of RAM, so before you can switch to it it has to reload from disk.
I'm assuming for now that you don't have an SSD, but a mechanical spinning hard drive.
10-20 seconds is a long time for this, but is possible if your hard disk is badly fragmented.
So first off, let us know how much RAM you have, and second use a tool like iDefrag to see (in the first instance how badly fragmented your drive is).
As a guide, on my machine here, kernel_task is using 718MB, which is the largest chunk, Thunderbird is next with 212MB.
If it shows up as very badly fragmented then go ahead and defrag.
On SSDs it makes no detectable difference - but does reduce the life of the drive.
If you have enough RAM the other possibility is that you have a program which has a memory leak, meaning it's demanding ever more RAM from the system, which will eventually mean things get pushed onto disk.
Life will be easier on you if you clone to an external drive rather than just using Time Machine (and make sure you can boot off the clone before you continue), and it might even be quicker to clone to an  external drive and then clone back again.
Does it happen more when you switch to apps you've not used in the last few minutes?
So the system will be activating that app, and redrawing the menu bar.
While Unix filesytems are typically not too bad when it comes to fragmentation, but if your disk is fairly full and you've just changed a lot of large files (like an OS update would) then you may be seeing a bigger impact.
If you routinely us lots of apps at the same time, you'll also need more RAM.
A bit of light word-processing is not going to put as much strain on the machine as doing video editing or other media heavy tasks.
If that spikes a lot when you switch apps then RAM will definitely speed things up.