If you really want this music you can ask the producers politely for permission, but then I think you should really buy a license...
Most of them will be really outdated (ie older that 75 years), or educational type stuff.
Archive.org should have stuff for both CC and PD (although I can't get the search to return results for any decent queries related to licensed music).
I have also noticed that indie gamedevs have licensed content from some well known (well for the genre) ambient/trance music producers.
Might be worth looking into how the indie devs go about that, maybe a producers have a indie game friendly licensing system.
Especially companies like Universal or VEVO can really get you into trouble.
There is plenty of Creative Commons licensed content.
At last, after that you broke 3 times the copyright law; you put it in your product, without authorization, which is the 4h and last infraction.
Jon Hopkins was used in Vessel and Capsized used music from Solar Fields (They did the Mirror's Edge theme too).
Independently from where you live, they are mostly the same.
The simple fact is that every source of music you use for your game has copyright on it, and believe me, you can get lots of problems with those companies.
For example CC-BY just requires credit to be given.
Solutions: either make your own loops, hire a musician to write the score or request the artist permission; unless you deal with U2 or Metallica, indie artists are friendly people, that may even end up giving you the rights in exchange of a bit of royalties based on your sales.
As said above you can use open-source music and/or soundeffects.
Listening on the radio, means that the radio station paid the rights to play it, and you can only listen to it...ripping it, like you do with youtube videos, is a violation
A song can't be redistributed, in any form or shape, unless approved by whoever retain rights for that song (producer, composer, group, whoever is).
I believe you would violate laws not once but plenty of times doing so.
The player is thinking of that "maybe sucking commercial" when he/she plays the game.
Briefly, if the rights holder doesn't specify the release of the rights in written format (on-line or documented to you) you cannot use a music piece in any way, neither commercially nor non-commercially.
You can find ones that are licensed without the NC (No Commercial Use) clause.
If you can't get the sync license for the song you want, few other options are:
For the last, but not least: I recommend you to not use music from commericials or anything simular to that.
Maybe it's a nice thing to buy FruityLoops 9, you can create techno music, and even other cool game music with it: it's not easy but it's worth a try.
Copyrights laws are mostly approved all over the world.
Getting sync license for a popular song can be pretty pricey or even impossible (unlike mechanical licenses, sync licenses are not compulsory and you are at the mercy of the copyright owner).
For more details, google can point you to the correct site for your country.
I'm not sure if the SA, Share Alike license is usable with a commercial game (it might require the game to be under the same license which basically would stop it being commercial, or maybe the license only applies to the song and any changes you make to that song).
Take out part of the song, is also illegal; "sampling", which is the term used to get a piece of a song to make a loop (like some hip hop artists loved to do in the past), is legal only if you have the authorization; 2nd infraction.
Then you want to strip the instrumental track, which beside being pretty difficult, since the instrumental track is merged with vocals and back chorus, but even if a software does extract it for you; this is yet another infringment of the law; unless you are authorized to do so (in which case, you would get directly the instrumental track from the producer, they record in multiple tracks for flexibility).
As many have already pointed out, using a copyrighted song without securing a proper sync license would be considered a copyright infringement and can get you into trouble.