If you are still having trouble, try ssh in as the user rsysnc is connecting with and try running rsync --version to see if the shell can find rsync.
The prompt will not be shown at all when directly executing a command, and non-interactively so.
The false command will immediately terminate without producing any output, so it is a good test:
If testfile is NOT 0 bytes, then the trouble is that your shell is outputting something.
This is commonly caused by your shell's login stuff outputting stuff on a non-interactive shell.
If rsync is not in the path, you will instead see something like:
You can tell the client end (assuming it is the newer end) to not advertise such a high version that the old rysnc server version doesn't recognize it.
Another thing to check if you are getting this error is whether rsync is installed and locatable by ssh:
or alternatively, like this, since the special parameter - contains i when the shell is interactive:
And since the shell can potentially be invoked, it must not display anything in non-interactive mode — like, when typing just "bash" into an existing prompt, nothing but the new prompt should appear.
If it is, you can change it to check if your terminal is interactive and only output text by using the following code in a bashrc.
Check /etc/profile, .profile, .bashrc, .cshrc, etc.
I got protocol version mismatch -- is your shell clean?
simply because I hadn't installed rsync on the other end yet.
Something equivalent exists for other shells as well:
Rsync does have options for specifying the path of the remote end, read the man page(s).
However, if the test file is in fact 0 bytes, then your shell is behaving, but it is possible that you just have a very old version of rsync.
This can be caused by an login message on the remote host such as "Your password is going to expire in 6 days" which RSYNC does not expect
If that command line produces any output, one of your startup scripts is to blame:
You can fix this by either installing rsync, or if it is installed but in an unusual location, passing the location to the rsync command line:
A simple google turns up first result: http://marc.info/?l=rsync&m=100263876212594&w=2
There is a simple way to test if your shell is clean, for an ssh connection: run a command from the ssh connection, rather than starting an interactive shell.
If you get something that says command not found, then rsync might not be installed on the machine you are connecting to or it might not be in the path.