Ever opened your browser after an installation, only to find out that you have a new homepage, a new search engine, or even a new browser?
http://sourceforge.net/projects/filezilla/files/FileZilla_Client/3.9.0.2/FileZilla_3.9.0.2_win32-setup.exe/download
Installers often try to sneak additional programs as a natural part of the installation.
http://sourceforge.net/projects/filezilla/files/FileZilla_Client/3.9.0.2/FileZilla_3.9.0.2_win32-setup.exe/download?nowrap
No doubt it's an arms race so the benefit will come and go but it's worth a try.
Ever missed a checkbox, and spent hours afterwards removing adware?
Have you ever felt, while installing software, that the installer tries to push additional unwanted programs at all cost?
What you have to do is ALWAYS downloading software from their official website and NEVER from downloading sites just like CNET (or everywhere else depending on your country).
These sites are the main source of additional crapwares in installers.
Unchecky warns you when you try to accept a potentially unwanted offer, which makes it less likely to be accepted accidentally.
Some installers will still have bloatware (Oracle's JRE and JDK for example), but most of time they will not have bloatware any longer.
This will mainly deal with the bloat and toolbar-type rubbish rather than the purely malicious stuff, as that doesn't tend to be served up by the legitimate (if annoying) sites.
Unchecky automatically updates whenever a new version is available, so you don't have to worry about running the latest version.
In fact I only noticed how intrusive they were when I went to download the same package from the same link on a shared machine with vanilla firefox.
You will avoid lots of bloatware with this kind of habit.
This will avoid you to have Google Chrome as your default web browser if you do not want to use it, for example.
Unchecky aims to keep potentially unwanted programs out of your computer.
Be also careful while installing software, by unchecking checkboxes asking for installing software which is not related to the one that you are installing for example.
Some sites have several download buttons, the larger ones next to "we recommend" text, and one little button to download what you really want (I might be thinking of download.com, but I haven't used windows in a few months).
For sourceforge in particular, append ?nowrap to the URL - this will allow you to download the file without the sourceforge "wrapper" that adds crapware to the installer - for example use
On my desktop with adblockplus and noscript enabled the bundle download buttons disappeared.
Unchecky automatically unchecks unrelated offers, both saving you mouse clicks and making it less likely to miss a checkbox of an unwanted offer.