I'd be slow to commit to a fix time on hardware issues, the same as on software.
Each part of the CIA level is given a number from 1 to 3.
So if they make you commit to short response times, just put an intern in the night shift to shuffle tickets for you until you wake up and there ya go.
OLA-3: RTO >= 24 hours & <= 30 days if not a data center failure, if dc failure > 30 days.
In terms of SLA levels, I've found that they tend to be of the form that "someone will be working on your problem within X hours".
One thing to consider when contracting an SLA is that SLA by itself means absolutely nothing, has to be observed together with the penalties in case SLA is not fulfiled.
How you derive a CIA rating usually amounts to figuring out how much money a business will loose if the data is stolen (Confidentiality), compromised (Integrity), or when systems are down (Availability).
One company I consult for uses 6 levels for their OLA metrics.
When talking about SLA levels we generally talk about HA (High Availability) and DR (Disaster Recovery).
OLAs are typically measured in terms of response times too; they use the same RTO/RPO objectives.
Thus, a CIA rating of 3-3-3 typically maps to an SLA & OLA level of 6 where an SLA-6 & OLA-6 is the lowest (longest response time) guaranteed.
Data for an application should be classified by the business unit paying for said application.
SLA-1 being zero down time, SLA-2 is something like up to 1 hour of downtime, SLA-3 is 8 hours, etc...  SLAs are met through the use of redundant equipment.
At one company we use a lot of Cisco to create high availability (Cisco CSMs and GSS gear).
CIA = Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability.
X if of course dependent on how much they pay, but somewhere between 1 and 8 hours would seem normal, in my experience.
This is typically how big companies that I've consulted for handle such things.
I have extensive experience in this space; I do a lot of work for a couple fortune-5 companies who operate their data centers like an ISP would to the various company departments needing hosting & support services.
The things that drive OLA and SLA metrics is something called a CIA rating.
If you're being asked to provide an SLA for restoration of hardware issues where your software happens to be installed, the answer is "no".
You never know when you'll be waiting for a vendor to fix a critical bug in something.
The CIA will help drive what the OLA and SLA should be.
When talking about SLAs we use levels to describe them.
They typically have two metrics called an SLA (Service Level Agreement) and an OLA (Operational Level Agreement).
So a company that stands to loose $10M if confidential data is stolen may have a C rating of 1 or if that lost of data is not critical and would only cost the company, say, $1,000 then you may have a C rating of 3 instead.
OLAs are, in real basic terms, how quickly someone (a human) responds to an event requiring manual intervention/corrective action.
You could commit to a response time, but without controlling the whole hardware/os/software stack you cannot commit to a resolution time.
So, for example, a CIA rating of 1-1-1 would be Highly Confidential, Highest Integrity level, and Highest Availability level.
Maybe your customer is telling you in an awkward way that they really need a hosted offering for your product?
For example, our ISP gives us 100% SLA on the network, but the maximum amount we can get back is our monthly bill which is really low as nowadays the bandwidth is cheap and nowhere near the amount of money we lose when the network is down.
In my experience all this SLA business practically means very, very little, if anything.
That way they can avoid whatever internal problems they are worried about and just cut you a check.
In situations where a company has multiple data centers, the HA component is usually a per data center attribute while the DR is an across data center attribute; both measured in terms of RPO (Recovery Point Objective) and RTO (Recovery Time Objective) to meant the SLA level.
Also, what is usually written in the contracts is how quickly someone will respond to the problem, never how long it will actually take to fix it.