That's a package that provides a simple-to-use web interface for exim administration.
It is the default MTA, has good support for virus scanning (with Clam AV), spam filtering (spamassassin) and greylisting.
Now here's my final word: if you are doing this to learn about various MTAs and related aspects, then go ahead and do it.
This will by default deliver either to a smarthost or to local mailboxes.
If you know how to do that you may also throw in some advice.
Someone recently recommended zimbra.com and obm.org, but I have no experience of those, and I would imagine they sit in front of an already working mailserver.
We went the LDAP route, but there's less help out there than there is for mysql.
To be honest, setting up mail servers is non-trivial, you may be best off visiting http://www.howtoforge.org/howtos/linux/debian and finding a howto that you think looks good for your needs.
Administration of a live mail server is not something you do once and then go away.
However, add-ons are available for these protocols.
It is a day-to-day job, requires lots of knowledge and dedication, and if you get one small bit wrong, the hackers will be all over you.
You'll need multiple applications, I would suggest Postfix (the for mail transport) and Dovecot (for IMAP).
I have heard very good stuff about gmail, but they are not the only ones.
If you are doing this for a few users and a real mail solution, I would much rather recommend you go and get yourself some accounts with a commercial mail provider.
You may want virtual domains and users, in which case you can use something like mysql or openldap.
None of your basic MTAs will support POP3 or IMAP.
Also, I would like to automate creating accounts for clients from PHP.
You can then install solutions for POP3 (I recommend qpopper, but there are many alternatives, e.g.
I heard that there are several solutions for this out there, including Cyrus.
I'm on Debian 5 and I want to set up an email server for POP3, IMAP and SMTP.
You could also use an entire suite based on courier.
What email server (that ideally supports those three protocols) would you recommend?
In terms of automating account setup via PHP, have a look at vexim.