In such cases, your device will send any requests that would normally go directly to a website, email server, etc.
If your phone has a slow connection to the Internet, e.g., because of a limited bandwidth from your Internet Service Provider or the phone service provider, that will slow your connectivity to the proxy server and thus your overall network performance.
to the proxy server, which would forward the requests to the appropriate destination server, whether it be various web servers, an email server, etc.
to route its HTTP/HTTPS traffic through the proxy server.
From your phone, your access speed to a website, if you are using a proxy server as an intermediary, will be limited by the available bandwidth between your phone and the proxy server and also by the bandwidth between the proxy server and other systems on the Internet to which the proxy server will be forwarding your network traffic.
A easy to setup proxy server is CCProxy if you are still looking to host one.
For example: i have a server at Amazon EC2, i would like to get internet access from my Android phone through a VPN using the server i have at amazon as a proxy server, can i do that?
I know that a proxy server can be used to secure a network, everything is encrypted, to connect from other country as if i were in another, surf anonymously...
However, you will be capped by the speed of your phone's upload/download bandwidth, which is not much.
Yes, you can set up a proxy at a server and route your connection through it.
But what i don't know if it's possible and how to do is to give internet access through a proxy server, i mean, can i create a VPN and give access to internet through a proxy server?
It does require internet access through WiFi or some similar source.
will the phone have the speed of internet as the amazon server?
You can also set up proxy servers to handle other types of traffic, such as email, etc.
If you set up a proxy server somewhere, you can configure a browser on your computer, phone, tablet, etc.
So, yes, the phone will have the access speed available from the proxy server to other systems on the Internet, but only for the part of the network path from the proxy server to those other systems.