So my advise would be to get educated from the people who have worked and are working with SQLServer on a day to day basis.
By working with SQLServer on a regular basis, you will feel the need to get more knowledge in different areas like Disaster Recovery, Performance Tuning, High Availability, Database Corruption, etc.
Just be aware of any newer (2008+) features you may encounter and don't rely on them for your production code.
One of the best soluton for Maintenance is SQL Server Backup, Integrity Check, and Index and Statistics Maintenance
Anything else I have missed (there's probably lots, as I said I am new to SQL Server...)
Maintenance: what are the most important (check database, reduce database, update statistics, rebuild etc)
Fun SQL tricks: There are lots of SQL features available in SQL Server that are not supported in Access (Jet/ACE) SQL.
I personally have taken IE1 and IE2 and trust me.. You will feel the difference !
(Or, use them as bullet points for your pitch to upgrade from SQL Server 2005....)
I could go on, but these are the things I remember discovering early on that got me "thinking in SQL Server".
Note: There is a plethora of information out there on the web with excellent Bad advice as well.
So, you can write a Stored Procedure (SP) once and use it (almost) anywhere, even across applications that share the same database.
Stored Procedures: Somewhat similar to Access macros and those little VBA procedures (Subs) you built in Access to do "useful stuff", except that in SQL Server they are part of the database itself.
Functions: These are somewhat analogous to the little VBA Functions you wrote in Access to incorporate into queries, except that SQL Server Functions, like SPs, are more tightly bound to the database.
Don't get me wrong, I still think Access is an excellent tool when used appropriately, and should be given serious consideration as a way to
Indexes - I don't know as much as I should, is there a good book/ blog etc that can teach me the basics upwards?
Triggers: Procedures defined at the table-level to make stuff automatically happen whenever there is an INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE on the table.
My suggestion would be to read up on any content posted by below sites ... (They are the best !!)
Also SQL Server Functions can be Scalar-valued (return a single scalar value) or Table-valued (return a rowset).
There is a lot more than just maintenance and Indexing in SQL Server.
As you learn more about SQL Server you will discover (to your delight) a number of things you can do in SQL Server at the database level that you previously had to do in Access at the application level.
"Common Table Expressions" (CTEs) and "RANK and PARTITION" are the ones that gave me "'aha' moments" as I was getting started.
Stairway to SQL Server Indexes -- Excellent series from basic to advance level.
Finally, even though you will be working with SQL Server 2005 I highly recommend that you get a copy of SQL Server 2008 (or 2012) Express for learning, mainly because of the IDE enhancements in SQL Server Management Studio (namely, auto-completion and interactive debugging).
Lastly, check this training from SQLSkills -- one of the best offered.