The original Magento was set up with v2.1.8 but I have had to update/upgrade the installation a number of times as the needs/requirements of the project have changed.
As a result, I do not necessarily have all the original files as they were installed (I backed up some, but after changing multiple times, I had to trim down what I was backing up) and can't necessarily ask the person who originally installed/configured this what he did.
But when I run certbot to test the renewal (per suggestions I saw in the various instruction pages) it fails:
The first problem occurred when the apache server was mysteriously shutting down overnight with no fan-fare.
You just need to configure new blocks for nginx containing your domains, after that calling certbot
I need to know what is still missing to get the renewal to work properly
All of the instructions I can find on setting up letsencrypt seem to assume you haven't done anything yet and don't yet have a certificate.
Part of the problem is that I am now using the Magento advice and set up apache to just do http in the background with a varnish cache and nginx handling the actually https stuff.
My server is hosted in Digital Ocean but generally you can do that with any server hosted anywhere.
I did this for 3 domains now and it worked, but try it at your own risk and make backups of original files before you do anything.
In each of these files, there are two lines where you need to replace apache2 with nginx
If you also want to migrate the certificates to a new server, I summed everything up in my blog here https://peacemoon.de/blog/2019/01/13/moving-servers-and-lets-encrypt-certificates-from-apache-to-nginx/
The original set-up was just a stand-alone magento-CE on apache2 with https.
(I also modified the 'installer' line but not sure if that is needed since it was installed under apache2)
But I do have certificates, I just don't have whatever nginx and letsencrypt need to run the renewal properly.
I inherited a very new magento configuration from a previous employee (who left for another job) where I currently work.
I modified the /etc/letsencrypt/renewal/myhost.conf to use nginx instead of apache for the authenticator.
I recreated a .well-known/acme-challenge/test file in the server root and added a Directory and Location issue and confirmed it accessible from both the apache server on http at port 8080 and through the cache on the nginx on port 443 with https.
Finally, to test if it went well, try renewing your certs with
What I need now is information on how to finish migrating the set-up so it the renewal script will work with nginx instead of apache2.
I traced that down to a cron job running a renewal script for letsencrypt that was trying to verify the certificate via apache2 (which is no longer doing https or talking on port 443)
I manage to get it working by, setting authenticator to nginx, commenting pre_hook and changing post_hook to systemctl start nginx to systemctl restart nginx in /etc/letsecrypt/renewal/*.com.conf.
If you don't get any errors, it means the renewal succeeded.
Just a received SIGTERM message in the error log which suggested something was shutting it down.