The IPv4 address range is small enough that it can be scanned in its entirety in less than a day.
When their ISPs enabled it, their home routers picked up the DHCPv6 responses and provisioned the addresses and everything Just Worked.
But you need the firewall still; the fact that you can't be found from an IP address scan does not mean you can't be targeted by someone who already knows your address because they got it somewhere else.
To summarize, you need something acting as a firewall to filter traffic you don't want to move past your router with IPv6.
It contains a way to set up port forwarding rules for NATted IPv4 connections, as most every other router has for years.
The main visible difference to you would be that you no longer have to specify which private IP on your network it's supposed to go to.
In Linux it happens to be implemented as part of the firewall code, but this is merely an implementation detail, and isn't necessarily the case on other operating systems.
The most important point here is this: NAT is not the firewall.
And for many people IPv6 will come on automatically and they will never notice.
Without NAT, everything behind your router has a unique public IP address.
Do I have to actively try to be defensive in things like blocking RPD or SSH requests, or should I be confident in the updated modern OS saving me from thinking about these things?
Don't let your computer get infected by malware and become part of a botnet used to send spam, perform ddos attacks and anything else that is bad for the internet.
What's automatically deflecting probing traffic in the IPv6 world?
It also has a traffic rules section for allowing specific traffic to be forwarded; this is what you use instead to allow inbound IPv6 traffic.
So if you want to "open ports" on an IPv6 router, and if that router behaves like most common consumer routers, you tell the firewall part of your router to allow incoming traffic on the port/protocol you want.
Typical consumer routers perform many functions other than routing:
If an ISP is delivering IPv6, does it need to be understood by the average netizen before it's enabled?
If there's no address translation problem to solve with IPv6, and if it still uses ports, is it now my responsibility to manage this?
I had to make one change to get a larger prefix delegation, though this is easy enough.
But on IPv6, in almost a decade I've never seen such a connection attempt on any port.
To answer the rest of your question, let us take a look at a real live IPv6 router firmware, OpenWrt version 14.07 Barrier Breaker.
If the device doing the routing doesn't do firewalling (likely not the case unless it's an enterprise router), you'd have to add a separate device to do that.
Nothing, unless the device has a firewall function and it's set to a sensible default, which is probably the case on any consumer IPv6 router.
Had I not needed more than a /64, I could have just plugged it in with zero configuration.
You can also use like something like fail2ban which doesn't block it completely but only after a certain number failed login attempts.
In this router, IPv6 is enabled by default and works out of the box using DHCPv6 with prefix delegation, the most common way that ISPs will assign address space to customers.
Don't run any insecure services exposed to the internet.
Having used IPv6 for the better part of a decade now, and watching the changes go by, I have a little bit of perspective on this.
You can block ssh but if you just block root login and only allow keys for login it'll make it basically impossible for anyone to hack in (assuming you have all the latest versions or old ones with backported bug fixes).
Indeed, many people are using IPv6 right now and have absolutely no idea that this is the case.
In short, generally, no you won't have to be too overly concerned about incoming IPv6 traffic because it will be firewalled by default, and because IPv6 address ranges can't be easily scanned.
Once you completely understand that the thing in the router protecting your home network is the firewall, and not the NAT, then the rest falls into place.
Finally there's one more thing: If you have a system on the IPv4 Internet today, it gets all sorts of inbound connection attempts on a variety of ports, attempting to exploit known vulnerabilities or brute-force passwords.
If NAT is not needed, it doesn't have to be used, though the firewall can still be there and be used.
The much larger size of the host-part of the address makes scanning the range virtually impossible.
OpenWrt's firewall configuration, like any reasonable firewall, blocks all inbound traffic by default.
Most home routers I've seen with IPv6 support also firewall inbound IPv6 traffic by default, though they might not provide an easy way to forward inbound traffic, or it may be confusing.
But since I never actually use factory firmware on any home router, (OpenWrt is that much better) it's never affected me.
Living behind a consumer-grade router for the memorable past, I guess I took the side-effect of NAT for granted, in that I had the burden of forwarding ports when I needed to, instead of have to manage them with a software firewall.