The latter runs both the risk that Windows repair or a future Windows update to Cortana will install a new executable and re-enable it without your knowledge, or that because you removed the file an the update will fail.
Apparently, the only way now to permanently avoid Cortana is to use another OS, such as Linux.
Now you can disable all the options relating to cortana and watch your CPU cycles drop and temps return to normal!
However for a more substantial move I recommend doing the following:
The easiest way to disable certain privacy aspects of Cortana is to use a third-party tool such as O&O Software's free ShutUp10.
Get-WindowsPackage -Online | Where-Object { $_.PackageName -like '*Cortana*' } | Remove-WindowsPackage -Online -NoRestart
You can remove Cortana completely, if you wish, but that also removes Windows Search (though that might not be an issue if you use a third-party tool such as DocFetcher or Mythicsoft's Agent Ransack, which provide increased search functionality).
From here you can switch off various features related to Cortana (or more like opt out, they still turn back on sometimes).
That said, after a Windows 10 update, expect that Cortana would be reinstalled.
I'd strongly recommend disabling it the officially supported way over screwing with an executable.
Part of Cortana, though, is Windows Search, so there would still be an occasional Cortana process such as file indexing.
However, there should no longer be any use of the internet by Cortana.
The above links have some overkill, so the boiled down version is:
Deleting the User-level package is considerably worse.
According to HowToGeek after installation you can disable this by:
Based on techniques here and there and our Windows cousin the unlock is not to be found in the Registry, but rather a SQLite package-tracking database: C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\AppRepository\StateRepository-Machine.srd
BEYOND install_wim_tweak, THE UGLY PART (WARNING: BREAKS FUTURE WINDOWS UPGRADES BECAUSE OF REASONS.)
To add to what Girish and Dan posted above on Windows 10 Professional you can first start turning of Cortana (and related) features by typing Cortana in the search bar and then left-clicking on the Gear icon to display the settings window.
For those curious what's going on under the hood with install_wim_tweak, it's fairly straightforward.
If you prefer not to use random binaries that get total permission of your system, and also build more understanding, you can do it this way:
Buried in the privacy policy for Win 10 (expand the Input Personalization section) is:
With consumer versions of W10 not allowing you to opt out of patches this could result in you getting stuck in a reboot loop due to the patch failing to install or lock you out of future security updates because you don't have one of last month's required patches.