Also, I'm assuming the CPU fan is actually plugged in and getting power.
First, remove the left side panel of your PC while it's running.
I run an i7 quad that tops out at about 65 under load.
Don't tilt the can, and DO NOT allow the fan to spin while blowing it off.
Inspect the CPU heatsink fins to see if they're gunked up.
DISCLAIMER: You can break things by doing the steps previously mentioned.
You can learn more about Computer Cooling with this reference:
If you're unfamiliar with thermal paste application, go watch some youtube videos now.
If it's getting hot sitting idle, there's something wrong and you should shut it off before the thermal range causes the processor to short out and die.
The heat coming off that Core2Duo will need direct transfer to a thermal plate to dissipate the heat or bios will report high temps.
Next, inspect the ventilation ports in your case and clean if necessary.
Research how to remove your particular heatsink, do so, then clean all the old thermal paste from it and the CPU's heatspreader using a paper towel.
Seems you have some problems with air flux and fan power as Tcase in CPU datasheet shows:
Once the alcohol is dry, apply a pea sized drop of new thermal compound to the center of the CPU heat spreader and then reattach the heatsink.
I suggest you to check if your Fan and Heat Sinks is enough to cover your CPU heat considering in some countries we have more temperature than others that affect the delta between air temperature and CPU heat.
TCase Temperature is the maximum temperature allowed at the processor Integrated Heat Spreader (IHS).
If these regular maintenance actions don't resolve the issue, you will want to get the supplies necessary to reseat your heatsink.
Once the majority of thermal paste is removed, clean the heatsink contact area and CPU heatspreader with the alcohol.
I'm guessing the processor fan is dead or running at very low RPM.
http://ark.intel.com/products/27249/Intel-Core2-Duo-Processor-E6400-2M-Cache-2_13-GHz-1066-MHz-FSB?q=core%202%20duo%20e6400 (check if this proccesor match with your one, your CPU info is poor).