Get it set-up without the intention of using it full time and just use it to experiment, learn your way around the database for a while and you can discover most of what the database is used for yourself :)
Does it store all the entries and comments on the blog?
Oh, and you're spot on the database is used to store comments, and posts in the blog along with other information such as user account information and possibly a lot more (I'm not particularly familiar with Wordpress so not sure what the 'lot more' might be).
Then I donwloaded MySQL (mysql-5.1.39-osx10.5-x86_64), which I believe is for 64-bit intel (by the way, I'm on Snow Leopard).
It's also possible MySQL may not be set to run at startup on your mac.
There is a great GUI client available for OS X called CocoaMySQL which I'd recommend especially if you're new to MySQL, it reduces the learning curve quite a bit.
I suspect the problem that you may be having is that mysql isn't in the path for the user that you're using to set-up your database with.
I'm not really sure how to make the mysql admin, which It kind of mentions you need before you can make the user and the database.
Two good sites on installing, starting and running MySQL in OS X are Hivelogic and Entropy.
I also created php.ini, and changed some warning thing and the time zone.
I used DynDns for a free domain name, that will always resolve to my current IP, updated with the DynDns Updater application I downloaded.
It should then prompt you for the password for your root account.
I reserved my local IP, so DHCP will always assign the same local IP to my mac.
I found instructions, and activated PHP (in /etc/apache2/httpd.conf).
Ok, I recently got interested in making my mac a server, maybe for a blog.
These are the instructions I've been following, the spot where I am right now.
Use PHPMyAdmin for working with MySQL databases; I use it all the time on OS X.
If you specify the full patch and use the default admin user your command line should look something like
I found Wordpress, a free open source blogging engine, so I decided to try that.
I symlinked /Library/WebServer/Documents to point to /Users/me/Sites/, so that I could put stuff in there instead.
If it's not starting automatically, you can start it from the command line using the following