It even worked when i moved from an Intel processor to AMD, and, just yesterday, i removed my Nvidia card from one computer and enabled the on-board Intel VGA, and the OS including GUI started just like nothing had happened at all.
If you're using Mac OS (Say, a Macbook Pro and a Mac Mini) this can be done fairly easy, if both PC's support the installed OS version, you will need to press the alt key when the computer turns on for the first time you move the SSD, but after that it will boot directly.
The issue you may have to replicate this with more modern machines is that the SSDs in the latest Apple laptops are not removable.
Since the SSD used in the desktop + laptop is the boot drive, it contains the OS - the only inconvenience I've encountered is having to re-enter all my iTunes, messaging/FaceTime and some email passwords each time the drive changes hardware.
It pulls out within seconds (after powering off the Mac Pro of course) and the SSD slides out of the Icy Dock housing without screws or other attachments.
Most standard Linux distros will allow you to do this - provided they are the same architecture (eg Both are Intel 32bit or 64bit machines).
The reason I unfortunately have to do this is because I've set up a local LAMP server on which i've built all my sites, apps, version control and databases.
You might have some problems if you're planning to run 3d-intense games within your Windows VM, but everything else should run fine there.
If Windows can find the drivers it will install them automatically, if not you will have to install them but just one time.
My distro of choice is Ubuntu, but I'm confident Redhat based installs will do the same thing - anything where you don't need to compile a custom kernel should work.
I'm still hoping for a day when hand-off between machines is as painless as checking your email in the cloud.
On a positive note, the older gear I'm describing is rather cheap  these days.
With Windows is another story, Vista and earlier versions installs can be moved to another hardware configuration only if the platform is the same (AMD x86, AMD64, Intel x86_64) but sometimes it can trigger the "Pending activation" state (I used to move my HDD from Laptop to another and this happened only once), and you could have trouble reactivating the licence.
In fairness, I do try and keep my hardware fairly standard (intel chipset motherboards with intel CPU) which makes it that much simpler, but certainly this can work on more diverse hardware.
I have, on multiple occassions, pulled drives out of 1 system, plugged them into another and everything just worked.
So unless you have some very special hardware requirements, Ubuntu should just work fine for you.
The swap takes ~5 minutes - the slowest part is removing / reinstalling the screws from the back of the Macbook Pro to get at the SSD.
I'm no expert on the Windows EULA and its enforcability in various jurisdictions, but as this leaves you with one installation that can never be run on more than one computer, you'll probably be fine.
Linux typically packs all the common drivers you might need as modules as part of the intitial boot process, and there is no "system lock in" to check if the hardware is the same as previous boots.
(Last month, i moved a Windows Server 2008 Virtual Machine from an AMD Host running Windows 7 to an Intel Host running Ubuntu, again without Windows reconfiguring anything, so you shouldn't have any problems there either).
Personally, i prefer XUbuntu, especially on my (6 year old) laptop, since it has lower hardware requirements, but it doesn't really make a difference if both your computers are quite new.
While version control could make it possible to switch between machines without swapping drives, all the uncommitted changes are not present on the cloud - as well as differences in database structure and data.
To accommodate the 2.5" HDD in the 3.5" Mac Pro drive bays I use a Icy Dock EZConvert 2.5-Inch to 3.5-Inch SATA SSD / Hard Drive Converter.
I have, several times, moved a hard disk installation of Ubuntu from one computer to another, and it just worked.
It depends on which OS you are using, Linux based OS'es have no trouble whit this, unless the new hardware configuration have a device with no drivers available, specially with the GPU (At least on the already installed OS).
I actually do this quite frequently when travelling using:
Having a local LAMP on the drive also means I can work without interruption while travelling in places without a reliable (and/or secure) network.
I have a USB hard drive with an emergency Ubuntu installed on it and most of the computers I've plugged it booted successfully, the ones who didn't was because of resources limitation (RAM, CPU and so).
This should take care of all "Hardware A is different from Hardware B" issues nicely.
Since you need some windows Software as well, i'd just recommend installing VirtualBox on your Ubuntu installation, and installing Windows as a VM within Virtualbox.