Grab Xming and Cygwin's ESD or PulseAudio daemons to run on windows, and you can have the best of both worlds without all the slowness and overhead of a VM.
If Windows is your main operating system, then use that as the host for your virtual Ubuntu.
I'm thinking that for your live music system, you may want fewer daemons running, a lighter desktop or other maybe some other tweaks to increase performance.
You can boot a Linux installation on any hardware, physical or virtual.
Virtualbox supports connecting a physical disk, though the option is not accessible through the GUI.
It supports running linux inside of Windows in a way that is much closer to 2 host operating systems (hardware peripherals are emulated for the linux kernel, but the CPU and RAm are not emulated.
The one issue you might run into is a proprietary video card driver that must only be loaded when running on the physical hardware, but I think Ubuntu will take care of that automatically (and if it doesn't it's only a matter of editing a configuration file or running a few commands once).
If what you are doing when you are using the "physical" and "virtual" Ubuntus is different, then two completely separate installs may be the easiest solution.
Not only can you specify a harddrive partition as the virtual disk instead of a file, I doubt you'll need to boot linux natively to get smooth audio playback.
You need to use VBoxManage createhd on the command line.
Virtualbox supports USB with any combination of Windows and Linux hosts and guests.
andLinux has a slightly more friendly installer for those unfamiliar with linux, though I've always preferred to do things myself with coLinux.
Regarding USB support, there are two versions of Virtualbox, one with USB support and one without.
If you were that bothered about freedom as is in liberty, you wouldn't be using Windows would you.
One possibility that I would consider is having two separate installations of Ubuntu (one physical and one virtual), but with a separate /home (and perhaps a shared swap space?
Both are free as in cost no money (except for certain restrictions which are unlikely to apply to you), but the USB support is not included in the version which is open source.
You just need to get the non-OSE edition, which is free of charge for personal or academic use.
Not if you want to pause/ hibernate your virtual machine though) that is common to both machines.