It would probably propagate slower than proper DDNS solution, and you would obviously not be fully self-hosted but depend on that third party for DNS services.
And last thing to note is that in many typical consumer home internet connections (like ADSL, cable, etc) the speed is asymmetric - that is, your download is much faster than your upload speed.
Note that is is also possible that your ISP have rules against you running services on your low-priced "consumer internet", and might shut you down if they find you breaking the contract.
Also, if you don't host your DNS yourself but offload that to third party DNS provider, then they might be giving you the API to changing IP as you say.
They are usually not malicious (and there are so many other security issues on the internet to be worried more about), but I would still prefer solution under my control (if nothing else, as it gives me freedom to choose my DNS provider instead of being locked in).
Or they might even be actively blocking any incoming connections to your home on lownumbered popular ports like tcp/25, 80, 443, etc.
Also, if your IP doesn't have reverse DNS (or sometimes even it has but if it looks dynamic!
In most cases, it would simply result in failed connect and thus delayed mail, but if other customer also runs SMTP server the mail would be delivered to him/her or be bounced back with "recipient does not exist" fatal error (which will usually automatically unsubscribe your from mailing lists etc).
Which is bad if you want to serve some bigger public content like pictures (instead of relying on facebook or google for that and giving up your rights) from your home, as it will be slow (not also for the guy downloading pictures from you, but also for your whole internet connection).
You can use regular DynDNS client on dynamic IP to update your DNS name, but the server code would still to run somewhere with static IP (as the GTLD servers still need to point NS records for your domain to some static IP).
Yes it's possible host the DDNS server yourself (in fact, I've written one DynDNS compliant implementation for DJBs tinydns myself some time ago).
But if some percentage of lost or misdirected mail is not a problem for you, then by all means feel free to try it.
I also do run my own Calendar/Contacts/Pictures server instances instead of handing over data to google or someone else (by using open source Nextcloud and Mediagoblin instances).
While I run them on "my" VPS with static IPs (as it is both easier and provides more bandwidth), both could be run on dynamic IP you have at home.
Also, as others mentioned, for sending mail you won't be able to reliably send mail directly from that server due to PBL blacklists (it will work sometimes, be lost or bounced other times, or marked as SPAM), but if you're OK via forwarding it via some other SMTP server (like from gmail or your ISP) it will work just fine.
), some mail servers will refuse to deliver you mail.
which could destroy your whole idea of self hosting (unless you change ISP or go in more expensive "bussiness class" which also usually has static IPs).
For example, if mail happens to arrive while you're changing IPs it's possible it will try to deliver to IP you had some moments ago, but now some other customer has.
However, the incoming mail (MX) server on dynamic IP would be is pretty problematic.