Base clock (BCLK) speed is the speed at which the CPU communicates to the "partner" chips around it, such as the northbridge/southbridge..IDK why they still use it, but it's more of a reference or baseline system speed...We USED to increase the base clock, back in the days before unlocked processors...Wasn't very effective though..
When software is not using all the available cores, some additional thermal headroom is available which can be exploited by increasing the clock speed of the active cores (Turbo Boost).
As long as one is not running a power/thermal virus (i.e., not peak utilization), one should be able to fully use the hardware at the stated clock speed without violating the thermal design power.
Incidentally, minimum clock speed is not especially useful for evaluating energy efficiency since a significant amount of power consumption is static power (independent of the work done).
And if water is dripping into the pail 1 units per second, we only need 1 person pushing the button.
Your CPU is only going to work as hard as it needs to, to complete the specified task.
the base for power savings is the lowest of your cpu clock speed.
But it further boosts the strength of that core when extra strength is needed.
while the highest for high performance mode (usually playing games and heavy software) use the maximum of your clock.
Turbo boost is more complicated to explain, and only is taken into effect when your other core doesn't have as large as a load as the core in question, or the CPU is not using much energy.
As an example you can split in your processor frequency into 17 imaginary people.
The more and use a lot of resources means more clock speed.
No need to have 17 people present wasting energy (did I forget to mention we're in space and oxygen supply is limited?)
The base clock speed is a guaranteed clock speed for full typical (but not peak) utilization.
85 units per second / 5 units per second per person = 17 persons
At a certain point, race to sleep (a.k.a., hurry up and go to sleep) will be more energy efficient than reducing the clock speed because sleep states reduce the static power use.
Let's say each person is equivelant to 100MHz of clock speed.
It is sort of the "heartbeat" of the motherboard...Or rather the frequency at which the system's heart is beating...The motherboard and supporting chips are the heart, the cpu is the brain, the ram is the memory...
A cpu with a lower base clock than 1.7GHz would not be able to keep up with a load that large and the application would lag.
However the minimum amount of people at work is 8 so there will be 8 people (your lowest clock of 800MHz).
But if you have water coming in at 85 units per second, you're going to need all the help you can get pushing those buttons!
If the task the people have to complete is push a button every time some water drips into the pail, and each person can push the button up to 5 times a second, releasing 1 unit of water from the pail every button push.
Sometimes, it depends on the how many task and process your system's running.
Now the base frequency of a CPU is it's low power state speed or totally idle speed...With my old 4790K AND my new 8700K it is 800MHZ...You'll know when you've messed up a setting in the BIOS or in Windows if your CPU is stuck at 800 mhz...Usually due to some Windows power saving mode being enabled...It is fun to sometimes make it 800 mhz and try to use windows at that speed..Makes you appreciate 4.0 Ghz and above!