To enable flash storage devices to conveniently store and access customer files, a file management system must be created to allow any device or computer to identify the files stored in the flash storage device.
    Reserving some cells for use by the flash storage device's controller, e.g., for storing firmware updates and other controller-specific information.
Testing each memory cell in the flash storage device.
I have Kingston Hyperx Savage 64GB with same thing as you.
Hey mike 2000 ( "Will update this thread when I get a response" ) did you ever get response?
Therefore, some cells are held in reserve to replace any memory cells that may fail over time.
to access the memory cells; i.e., to store and retrieve data on the flash storage device.
Generally ram is made, it is tested to see what size it is, and then the space is formated to appear as that size.
    Creating a File Allocation Table (FAT) or other directory.
For example, the specification for Secure Digital (SD) cards requires reserved areas to support special copy protection and security features.
I don't have that big flash drive, but will be interesting to know...
The full capacity of my DataTraveler or Flash media is not available for storage.
    Identifying all defective cells and taking steps to ensure that no data will be written to or read from a defective cell.
Following that logic, flash drive with 128GB capacity would have 90 (double of 45) MB unalocated space, flash drive with 256GB capacity 180MB... and so on.
As far the strings in the unallocated space, I am guessing that is from their quality control test before the product ships.
Flash memory devices are manufactured with considerable excess, and when a cell fails, it can no longer be written to, but it can be read from, At that point, the controller on board will copy the memory content to a new, unallocated, cell, and then mark the old cell out of use.
The most common type of file management system for flash storage devices is the File Allocation Table (FAT), which is also used on hard drives.
Some of the flash storage device's listed capacity is used for formatting and other functions and thus is not available for data storage, therefore you will not see the full capacity.
Memory is notoriously difficult to manufacture with any level of consistency.
The unallocated space will be used to replace memory cells which fail.
    Where applicable, reserving some cells for special features.
When a flash storage device is manufactured, steps are taken to ensure that the device operates reliably and permits the host device (computer, digital camera, PDA, etc.)
These steps, loosely called "formatting," utilize some of the memory cells within the device and thus reduce the capacity available for data storage by the end-user.
There (https://www.kingston.com/us/support/technical/products?model=hxs3) is an answer: