Frankly, as long as you gpg-key check your code (and then sign your packages with your own key), you're going to be as secure as the distro's code.
If you can get your hands on SRPMS, building a package isn't too hard.
If you need the functionality, then that's up to you to do the labor.
It's a bit of a pain (though I only build a few packages), but I know what I'm getting when I'm done.
(It's mainly getting the build environment together for a given package that can be a pain.)
I use the spec files from the upstream (RHEL / CentOS) but I modify them to suit my needs when necessary, and subsititute in whatever version of the source I'm looking for (modifying the upstream's patches, when necessary).
This is a constant problem when you're using a distro; the solution usually is to build them yourself and keep up to date on the security advisories and leaks for those packages.
We keep a VM running to build packages that aren't available from the distribution's repositories.
This also helps my workflow of not installing compilers on production systems, since I can ship my custom-built binaries out to them.
I can't really answer to your question, but what I use to do, is to use the official source code release, then compile it on a developpement environment.
I also do this to provide backports for newer packages to older OS's when I'm "stuck" running an older OS (no budget to upgrade, etc).
I build my own RPMs because I don't trust third part maintainers to stay on the face of the earth.
writing the spec yourself) is a good exercise, though you should read some "professionally" done specfiles first to get a feel for it.
Then I just do a package from it using the dpkg tool (I'm using debian), but there should be similar way to do a package with RedHat like OS.
And go hang out with some crufty old gray-hairs that will enjoy telling you how labor-intensive it was to keep up a box when EVERYTHING got compiled from source.
Your choice, but there's only so much 'free' in 'beer'...
You just have to keep up to date, which isn't insecure, it's just labor.
Security patches that vendors distribute are usually provided first via the security lists, then are tested and integrated by vendors and released.
Otherwise, go with a distro that doesn't have the trailing-edge problems that centOS has or that has an official build service (cough OpenSuSE) or buy a license from a vendor that updates more frequently.