Routers and switches now are smart enough to not require one or the other.
As to why they were required, and this is just what I remember, the computers transmit on 2 pairs and receive on 2 pairs, so in order to prevent collisions, you had to switch 2 of the pairs to connect two machines directly.
With straight through cabling, the number and type of these connections does not need to be considered for selecting cables.
Of course we still need cross-over cables for directly linking most network devices without using switches or hubs, otherwise the two transmit ports would be connected together, as would the receive ports.
The drawback in some devices was that although the first packet sensed on TX would trigger the switch, it was otherwise "unreadable" as far as its packet contents were concerned and so would be dropped.
Transceivers like this did rely on retransmission in the upper layers, as the first Received packet after link-up would be dropped if there was an initial TX/RX mismatch.
In the odd case of needing to connect a switch to a wall port, just use a single crossover cable.
You need to bear in mind that back then things could strange results, or even no results, if you didn't use the link ports as intended.
For the backend, back the days of coax uplinks the crossover wasn't an issue, and the AUI-10BaseT uplink adapters had a MDI/MDI-X switch on them.
With crossovers in each place, one would need to be sure that there were an odd number of cables in place and things like adding a coupler to extend the cable would require extra thinking.
The same concept happens on fiber patches between closets.
I think (hope) this effect is absent in modern auto-sense devices.
At one end (hopefully up or down side is consistent across the environment), cross the A and B fiber to get a connection.
The next step was to provide a switch on the hubs so that you could use either straight or cross-over cables for chaining.
Most are wired straight through which makes things easier if patching directly through multiple junction points.
Once upon a time, all this was $$$$, I remember being very happy when ethernet got down near $100 a port, so it was to keep this all sane.
Either user a crossover cable, or perhaps a physical switch, or two physical ports for the same logical port, one wired normally, one crossover (don't use both).
If the first packet on link-up was received on what had initially assumed and set to be the Transmit line then the TX/RX functions would be swapped over, and subsequent order was restored.
Cross-over cables were originally used when chaining hubs because they wanted the link port to be different to the other ports.
Only when going from pc -> hub or pc -> pc is one or the other required.
Between the hub/switch and the patch panel in the wiring closet, the premise cabling between that patch panel and the wall port, and then between the wall port and the device using network.
The cross-over cable correctly connects transmitter to receiver.
The reason straight cables are used is because they are easier to manufacture, as both ends are the same.
It used to be hard and expensive, so to keep things sane.
Even when the early auto-sense Ethernet PHY transceivers became available I think a good proportion of the cheaper ones were not "seemless".
In most situations, there will be several cables in the chain.