All right, maybe that's not a sufficient description of an "idea".
It's real work that required a significant investment.
Now we say ideas are a dollar a bale in thousand idea bales.
At which point, it will no longer be scarce, so whatever significance it had as being "original" or "unique" will have evaporated.
An idea might get your game played, but it won't make your game stand the test of time.
"Play an Italian plumber who rescues princesses and jumps from one platform to another"?
That is more in line with a completed script for a movie.
At that point, the ability to copy such an idea is no longer trivial (and is easier to protect legally).
But it wasn't great based solely on ideas; level design was what made the game work.
I'd say one of the best examples of an old game with a novel idea and impeccable execution was the original SNES StarFox.
A poor implementation would still fail, but that wouldn't necessarily diminish the quality of the design/writing work.
If the game had poor level design, nobody would have bothered.
So, given that you always need both, the implementation is more highly valued.
A script is not a movie, but good scripts are valued highly, because they include the essence of the story.
If the level design did not exercise the swinging mechanic properly, it would never have been what it became.
However, that idea could very, very easily fail if it isn't executed well.
Asking people to sign an NDA to read your treatment will probably not work.
In some ways, comparing ideas with execution is apples vs oranges.
Is it obvious to anyone reading it that the idea is valuable?
So if you want to prove your "idea" is worthy of implementation, write a design document.
But ideas in general are worth, on average, almost zero.
On the other hand, we know of many successful games which came from rather mediocre ideas, and the only reason they were successful was because they got implemented adequately.
Your counter-example, that a great idea can make a great game even if the execution is simplistic just shows that simplistic execution is not inherently bad and often optimum.
Fortunately, we have a system tailor made for that: economics.
But they are both reasonable challenges from the point of view of a single person (writer or game designer).
A good idea should also be considered a product of all the bad ideas that came first, and were rejected.
If the circuit pieces were not well designed, reuseable, and interesting from a gameplay perspective, nobody would have cared.
But in order to do that, we need a more concrete understanding of the term "idea".
As artifacts, they can be sufficiently well-formed to be considered and effectively judged, and from there can be produced into a real product (movie or game).
I think what happens is that you look at a truly great game that also had a novel idea, say Pac Man or Tetris, and you think the idea is what made it great.
I've never seen a great game that is great solely because of a novel idea.
And if there are millions of good ideas that came to nothing, that would imply that good ideas are still not worth much on their own.
We also know that ideas, no matter how good they are, require much less effort to create  than the implementation of that same idea.
Something that could take a few minutes, at most a few hours, to write.
We have no idea how many amazing ideas never got made because of problems during the implementation.
"Control a space marine as humanity fights off aliens"?
Even in the old days, how well you executed an idea mattered more than the idea itself.
But without the proper level design, you would have gotten a forgettable mess.
Now, if you expand your idea of "idea" beyond treatment into a full-fledged design document, say a twenty-thousand word treatise describing setting, characters, story, mechanics, and complete with illustrations and charts and graphs, you're into a different territory.
Maybe it takes months of thinking about ideas, considering them, evaluating them, tweaking them.
And we know that ideas themselves are impossible to judge for quality.
I honestly don't know about a 99/1 split, and it doesn't really matter.
But even then, if all you are left with is a splendidly inspiring paragraph, you're still at a significant disadvantage, vis a vis implementation.
The problem is, to increase your certainty of the valuation, you have to ask more people their opinion.
Assuming the idea is 1 in a million, how do you convince people of that?
This is a game that has a good idea: use "chemistry" as a means for essentially circuit diagramming and programming.
Bionic Commando had a novel idea, but if the level design was crap, nobody would have cared.
In both cases, they are actually part of the implementation.
Let's consider a treatment, a textual description of a few paragraphs.
There was detail everywhere, from robots that moved to robots that carried buildings, the behavior of enemies, etc.
It's not like you can quantify that sort of thing anyway.
A game design document that successfully captures the essence of a game is also worth a lot (although I don't know if there will ever be a time when it becomes normal to sell game treatments to studios a la scripts).
I don't know about 99/1 but there is a reason I set my desktop background to the slogan "Ideas are easy, Implementation is hard"
What matters is that yes: execution of an idea is far more important than the idea itself.
By comparison, the work of implementing a game takes months or years, if not hundreds of person-years.
But if you think about it, it's pretty clear that those same ideas could have been implemented in dozens of games and never made a great game.