It's NOT an "end-consumer" device, like an Apple TV or a DVR or a microwave.
In the case of embedded technology, that's not really true.
A power button adds hardware / firmware / PCB space / development cost
There's obviously some marketing philosophy going on.
So what do the potential customers want to pay for, and what not?
But to reiterate "it's not an end-consumer device", it is not something most people would have any desire or interest in owning.
Actually, most computers (and TVs for that matter) do not have a power button they have a 'shut down' button.
In an embedded scenario, a power button is a liability, not an asset, especially if the computer is located somewhere that is difficult to access.
Yes, but you know the manufacturer does not provide those for free, which is why specific price tags are attached to specific goods.
And +1 for not turning them off - I don't shut mine down for days/weeks/months
Like, for every feature that adds $1-2 to production costs, how is net sales going to be affected?
You expect to have to yank out the power cable if you want to power down the item.
There's also a related issue, the more bells and whistles you add the more complex something is.
If there were a power button I guess that would be nice, but to be honest I could care less.
Rasperry Pis are often used in embedded applications.
It is easy to say, "This will only add $0.50," but also easy to see there is a potentially very long list of things about which that might be said.
If you want to power off you have to remove the cable from all of these devices.
For a budget computer, I suspect cost was the main reason why the PI didn't include a power switch.
A power switch adds the possibility that the unit will get accidentally turned off, or that it won't power on as soon as power is applied.
This makes it more likely to break, in whole or part, and more difficult to debug when unforeseen problems arise.
Will we sell more because of the feature, or less because of the increased price?
There is simply no need for the complexity or physical footprint of a separate power button.