To return to default settings, read your BIOS manual to determine the key to press to restore default settings.
See more here: http://blogs.msdn.com/b/santhoshonline/archive/2011/11/24/how-to-launch-a-process-with-cpu-affinity-set.aspx
Process Lasso does a fine job with default (persistent) CPU affinities.
However, it also has 'hard' BES style limitation, though that's not recommended since it's such an unnatural act.
This requires no additional software and more importantly, reducing your CPU speed makes your processor more efficient, so is a better solution than limiting your CPU usage in Windows.
If there is a single application that you want to start thus throttled, you could create a shortcut with this command.
Practically all laptops and Windows itself have built in mechanisms for dynamically adjusting processor speed to match load.
The easiest way is by setting the multiplier to a lower number.
You can override this behaviour - for example in Control Panel => Power Options => Advanced, you can set a maximum processor speed that's below 100%.
(Or just inspect the BIOS screen carefully, especially the exit screen.)
Please don't touch voltages because this can damage your CPU if it's too high, or cause errors when it's too low.
Instead of downloading a program to do that, if you go to task manager and go to details you will see a list of the processes you are running.
Sure this is an old question but I'm surprised nobody has suggested this yet:
If you right click and use the "set affinity" option instead of "set priority" you can select how many cores are being used by an individual program hence limiting the amount a CPU usage by the program.
These days, the best solution is to limit per-process CPU use by limiting the CPU affinity (cores the process has access to).
You may need advanced experience if your motherboard or CPU does not have a means of modifying clock speed using a downloadable program.
Your processor will then be limited to a lower speed, and thus generate less heat, nomatter what you're doing.
In the case there are no utilities avaialble, you will have you enter your computer's BIOS and modify the clock speed of your processor.
Using 50% of a processor at 2.0Ghz will use considerably more power than 100% of a processor at 1.0Ghz.
Frequencies shouldn't be modified either, just the multiplier.
Underclocking the CPU will let you achieve slower CPU speeds, lowering the heat produced.
You have less precision (can only limit to certain percentages), but this is a more natural operation than trying to periodically suspend and resume process threads.
(Search for overclock utilities for your CPU or motherboard (from your CPU and motherboard manufacturer only), just note you will be interested in underclocking.)
Check the process in task manager to view the actual affinity outcome!
Note that the affinity is set by a hexadecimal value, which may require some trial and error.
Another very convenient way to set the affinity of a certain executable when it launches is to use the start command.