Have you documented the process of deploying the "good" setup?
If the hostname of the server is localhost, localhost.localdomain, contains an IP address or doesn't resolve to your server you'll get this issue.
For example there are more Received: lines in your header and not just one.
All the other things mentioned here can help you out and make it more likely that your mail will be accepted and delivered to the inbox.
hostname yourdomain.com and also in /etc/sysconfig/network.
Google has a support channel for this: http://mail.google.com/support/bin/request.py?contact_type=bulk_send
Long story short: it is impossible to guarantee that a remote site will treat all email from you as non-spam.
4- You state that you have an identical setup with a different domain / ip that is working fine.
You have one really big thing going against you; you are probably trying to send email from "generic" IP space (hard to know since you are not giving us the IP).
Your php script submits email there, or forks the sendmail executable which in turn submits email there (check your submit.mc / submit.cf to verify this)
For one, because many sites have their own local block-lists and it is not always possible to know if you're in it.
Also, try running your mail through SpamAssassin and see if it flags anything surprising.
Regarding your Update #2: Greylisting is not the problem here.
In general, many people block outright any mail that originates from "the cloud," providers like Google and Amazon make it easy to sign up and get a server instance but the IP address is not really "yours."
3- The fact that even with postfix you get the same results makes it more probable that the problem is elsewhere, like
Restart sendmail and then telnet to your server on port 25, it should say something like:
Take a look at the r-whois for your IP address to see about this.
In general, I find you will get spammed for one of the following reasons:
Try this Email Server Test and see if you get any recommendations useful for your setup.
To sum up, you will have better results by setting up your own IP space to send outgoing mail.
If yes, then send an email that has the exact content with the ones that get labeled as spam.
5- Add the IP address from the "good" setup to the SPF record.
Hence, there is no way to assure that the mail is legit.
220 yourdomain.com ESMTP Sendmail, if not you may need to edit a sendmail config file as well.
Repeat it on the problematic one (with changes where appropriate).
For example, if I use the gnu jwhois client and do whois 74.125.83.198 (to check the sending address of a Google notification email) I get output that shows Google owns the IP, postal address, etc...  Generic space will show information about an ISP, or worse...
2- The 127.0.0.1 line is OK. From the information that you have provided in comments, the sendmail daemon accepts mail on 127.0.0.1.
6- Check whether your domain name and/or IP in question are included in any DNSBL.