Debian is a "distribution" of Linux; they did all the hard work of compiling all the various tools you needed to make a whole Linux system, compiled them and offered them for download as a bunch of floppies.
Ubuntu = Debian redistributed (Debian made more end user friendly)
Unix = a commercial operating system specification
Debian = a Linux distribution (Linux + other stuff)
UNIX was copyrighted, so he rewrote all necessary code (with many helping hands), and required all code to be free, using a special license.
There are two main distributions: Debian/Ubuntu and Redhat/Centos.
Linux is an operating system kernel initially developed entirely by Linus Torvalds.
Typically one distribution is referred to as an upstream distribution.
All the things outside the kernel (running as processes owned by users) are together known as the "userland".
There was no Unix code in Linux (although this was the subject of prolonged litigation which ultimately failed).
It was cheaper than UNIX, soon had more users, was used on more servers.
Releases of the downstream distribution depend to a large extent on new releases of the upstream distribution.
Redhat and Centos both are server systems, like Debian.
The latter group were essentially based on a re-implementation of many ideas that came from Unix.
They got very far, they made a C compiler, a C library, a linker, editors, shells, all the commands you'd expect in a typical Unix shell, lots of stuff.
Not really, Ownership and development of Unix and Linux are clearly separate.
It turned out to be possible to compile his kernel and use it inside the GNU userland (this was probably not trivial, but I wasn't there and don't know).
Besides that there are some other distributions, but these have the main marketshare.
Nowadays Unix is a trademark and not an operating system.
I suspect there's not any PC-DOS code in Windows 8, maybe not even for compatibility purposes.
One in which Ubuntu add a lot of value (compared to some other such relationships such as CentOS and RedHat perhaps)
The Free Software Foundation has always insisted it should be called GNU/Linux as a result.
When Linus Torvalds created his Linux kernel, he didn't create a userland.
It was so expensive that Linus Torvalds created an alternative: Linux, which stands for Linux Is Not UniX.
Many other distributions were later created, often not from scratch, but taking an existing distribution as a starting point and adding extra software to it, or organizing it differently, or whatever.
As this was a lot cheaper, many people started using it.
It was intended to be a bit like Unix and drew many ideas from Unix.
You also nowadays add one or more of several competing subsystems (e.g.
To make a usable operating system you notably add to a Linux kernel a set of "GNU" tools  independently developed by the FSF.
He just had a kernel, it wasn't a full system either.
Torvalds did not start with any Unix code as a base.
Ubuntu was created on top of that, but then with normal users in mind - those that don't know how to use a terminal, those who want something that simply works.
GNU stands for "GNU's Not Unix", and it is an attempt to create a free, independent version of Unix, developed by the Free Software Foundation.
Only big companies, universities and governments had computers back then, and they had money.
There is a clear progression from DOS to Windows 8 though.
The OS people usually refer to as "Linux" actually started out as the Linux kernel with the GNU userland, and lots of other stuff has been added since.
There are many such distributions, each with their own particular choice of features.
As it was cheaper and faster than Windows, it was more popular for cheap webservers as well.
Some distributions are essentially modified forms of other distributions.
They both have desktop versions (and debian as well), but not as user friendly as Ubuntu, which has a server system as well, which is becoming more and more popular.
Redhat is the OS of choice for big companies, because they offer support contracts - expensive but for some people not a problem.