I'm not sure what your actual requirements are (having never used the Google wiki stuff) but I've run mediawiki off CentOS a number of times and found it to be rock solid.
You'll certainly have an easier time setting up MediaWiki as there's no real need to muck about with Java to get Confluence up and running.
I'm a big fan of DokuWiki  I've ran it on two different projects now and it's simple enough (all files, no DB) to quickly jump in, but powerful enough you dont end up have to redo it later.
We're also very disappointed in Google for not having an export feature for site's wiki, but that's another issue...
We use it to track releases, ideas, brainstorms, lists, rack/asset info, etc...
If you want to see a running public confluence install, you can always check out the opscode one: http://wiki.opscode.com/dashboard.action (and http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home).
Once you figure out how to deal with it, it's no bother.
From an system administrator point of view, it is simple to set up (either from source so you can use your CentOS, or the pre-packed VM built on Debian).
Mediawiki is also good if you want to go the free route (and very solid as mentioned in another answer).
I am mainly concerned with finding a replacement with a similar ease of use and the ability to run off of CentOS.
I believe it is even in the EPEL repository, although most of my installs have been tarball downloads.
To get an idea of what its like, download the VM and try it out.
There's plenty of plugins for non-out-of-box functionality.
We use Google site's wiki to host a large portion of our internal documents.
Ours is used for both a company Intranet, to display current events, resources for employees and other tools, as well as hold the knowledge-base for IT and our other documentation.
Does anyone have any experience with these or suggest others?
The only annoyance about it to me is how you store/retrieve documents.
It is highly configurable (we have ours using Single Sign On with Active Directory, secured behind a reverse proxy for external access with SSL at login time only), and very expandable.
There is an excellent WYSIWYG editor (FCKEditor), and the skins are aesthetically pleasing and logically laid out.
We've realized this is not ideal and we've started hitting capacity/bandwidth limits and we're not really ready to get a full Google apps enterprise setup.
That site runs on Mindtouch, and contains many examples of the possibilities.
We use Confluence where I work, and it's not too shabby as far as wikis go.
We have also begun using it to hold html forms that either post to email, or to a different mysql database, where a page outputs results.
Pretty much everything you described it would be used for, it does well.
I've seen other articles on Serverfault mention Confluence and Mind Touch.
We use Mindtouch, and it has been incredible for us.