Another problem is how difficult it is to access documents.
Then you can e-mail a password protected PDF through e-mail, and include in the e-mail that it's password number 0850, or something.
So Acknowledgement of document  and guaranteed readability are two situations where you might consider sending an fax instead of email .
. . to make the signature at the document layer, and it should not be able to be deleted by others.
They don't have to go through printing tons of papers, instead the fax will take care of it AND will display your fax number at the top (for easy organization).
In the foreseeable future, you might able to have a type of 'email machine' where companies would have an email server with a special email for each department.
Also the whole process of sending authenticated mail is a bit complicated.
Faxing official documents with signatures and stuff like that just makes it easier for people at the receiving end.
Also if you are not sure that the attachment can be opened at the other end you can use fax.
Also, mice are difficult to use for drawing and graphical tablets aren't often a part of standard office computer.
Also fax cannot easily or mistakenly be forwarded to an unintended party like a confidential email can.
I got tired of getting a document, printing it out, signing it, and scanning it back in.
You won't have to worry about the PDF sitting on some server forever, and
Every email received would go through filters to remove any kind of spam and only accept legitimate emails.
The machine would then catch these emails, send them to the 'email machines' of the department in question and it would be automatically printed off.
Fax is typically sent over telephone lines and the data is uninterrupted and not subject to being intercepted at any number of points over the internet like an email message is.
When you send a fax you know if the other person has received it , where as there are no foolproof methods of confirming that the other party has received and read your mail (as far as i know ) .
The image added by Foxit Reader is located at the annotation layer.
Password protect that, e-mail it to the recipient, and phone him the password.
For example in some countries you can just fax a signature while using digital signatures would require you to get an official digital signature (usually stored on a smart card, if it exists in the first place, and sometimes having less "validity" than a handwritten signature), then get a smart card reader, install middleware which  may or may not work with the program you wish to use to sign the document, and then the receiver may also need to have program which will work with the digital signature to confirm it, and so on for the whole chain.
Even if I set the Properties to "Locked," it looks like the next person can un-check the Lock box and delete it.
Or, you might create 1,000 20-digit passwords in a spreadsheet, numbered 1 to 1,000.
For a simple office clerk, it's often easier to just use fax, and then focus on doing the job he's supposed to do.
Then when I get a document, all I have to do is "Add an Image" to put my signature and initials in the right place.
On computer such "simple" things are a bit more complicated.
Then set the "Modify documents" in document restrictions to "Not Allowed."
So basically the main reason is inertia of the society.
I don't think that fax has any significant advantage over email other than this.
Is there any way of making this permanent, so that no one (or at least no one but me) can remove or modify it?
It's not uncommon for some businesses to need to submit signed documents to dozens of different government regulatory offices, agencies, banks and so on and in all of them everyone will have to be trained and equipped to use the digital signature.
So, what I did was to scan in my signature and initials.
For example, if you have a document on the computer, you'd need to print it, do editing by hand and then scan it, or edit it on the computer, and people often aren't as used to interfacing with computers as they used to interfacing with a pencil.
Such preparations may be made on a level of single country, but what happens if you get a signed e-mail from another country (when the signatures are even more important because the other person can't just come over and sign a document himself and mail takes time and money).
So, IMO, PDF can be done more securely than a fax.
Everyone needs to get used to e-mails, and almost everyone is already used to using  a fax, so transition isn't easy.
I don't know if something like this exists, but it's kinda cool :)
The only person who will see it is the person to whom you gave the password.
Now, here's the problem - If I send it on to someone, it looks like they can remove my signature (image).
Then, add a password to the PDF, and phone that in to the recipient.
Using a fax, you can easily send handwritten notes, or take a document and underline it by hand and so on.