It sounds like it's getting remapped at some level to act like the Favorites key on "internet" keyboards.
After that you should close them from the task manager Ctrl+Shift+Esc one by one and see after each one of them if the win-key returns to its normal behavior.
When you'll find it you'll decide what to do with this "remapper"... [e.g.
The HKCU in your other comment means its hopefully isolated to your user.
For hardware, I would try still another keyboard connected via another USB port.
Both are presented there: Remapping the Keyboard Layout in Windows XP, Vista, and 7
and they are a bit tricky to change so I suggest you two easy solutions to remap the Windows key to the default value.
Just reset the "W key(s)" to their default value...
I would suggest you get hijackthis and see what applications are loading on startup.
The Win key is normally registered as a hotkey by explorer.exe, using the RegisterHotKey API function.
http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?DisplayLang=en&id=22339
You can find out what hotkeys are registered using Hotkey Explorer, although its display is more "user friendly" than I would prefer.
There is two problem here instead of just one: the first is to remap the Windows Key and the second is to detect and eventually avoid a remapping from a (suspected) software running in your sytem.
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb896645.aspx
I suggest you to monitor which process is accessing the registry keys related to the keyboard layout with the Sysinternals Process Monitor.
You could also try mapping another key to be WIN and see if this changes anything in the observed behavior.
I would create a new user and run it for a while to see if it reoccurs, if not just move all your stuff over (A pain, I know)
Checking for software is best done by booting in Safe mode with networking (for Internet), if you can stand it for a whole day.
In any case, for the Favorites key, this line in Process Monitor is normal:
If you cannot find what the problem is, taking the computer to a repairman is my last idea beside giving up on using the WIN key.
http://vlaurie.com/computers2/Articles/remap-keyboard.htm
If that doesn't work, try to load windows in safe mode and load each one of the applications on your own and see when the win-key stops functioning as it should.
If this doesn't happen any more, then this is caused by some installed program.
This could of course only be either hardware or software.
I believe that after doing that you'll be able to answer both 2) you'll find the program that causes it, and 1) uninstall/re-configure that program to permanently solve it.
The keyboard layout is located in these registry keys:
I suggest you to try first with KeyTweak because MKLC is a too much "heavy" solution: it create a huge setup file and "lighter" solution is, imho, better...