The files are merged into a single in-memory configuration at startup.
What does matter is whether you put it in the appropriate section ( or , for example).
Put configuration where it makes the most sense to you, the server administrator.
2) Probably put it in the virtual host, (ie, in 000-default, inside the  block, because that's probably where it makes the most sense, and will apply to the scope where you want it.
However, I'm not entirely clear what you're asking in question 3.
Also, never, ever, set 'AllowOverride All' in  as you have there in your example.
Any directives should thus be moved to the main config.
Question 2: Change 'AllowOverride All' to 'AllowOverride None'.
That says "turn on .htaccess files for the entire file system, which is clearly not what you want, for reasons both of security and performance.
1) Where should i insert htaccess rules, in apache2.conf or in 000-default?
Put directives somewhere that makes sense to you, and where you will be able to find them next time.
I've read how to use Directory block to include htaccess rules into an apache configuration file, but i've mainly three doubts:
Question 3: Once you set 'AllowOverride None', .htaccess files will be completely ignored.
Remember,  refers to the actual filesystem directory '/', not your web document root directory.
It does not matter which of the configuration files you put the directive in.
Main configuration file in /etc/apache2: apache2.conf
In sites-enabled there is another file including additional directives, 000-default:
3) After disabling AllowOverride All, shall i include the directives of htaccess for /usr/share/phpmyadmin too, even with DocumentRoot /var/www instruction?
So even when you're using .htaccess files for something, it should still be set to 'None' in .
I'm running a website with Joomla on a dedicated server (Debian), and i've read that moving .htaccess rules to apache2 configuration files may result in a good performance improvement (Apache HTTP Server Tutorial: .htaccess files).
2) As the performance improvements are due to apache lookups reduction for htaccess files in the main directory and in subdirectories, which directive should i modify?
In apache2.conf there are, among other directives that i'am able to understand:
Running a "locate .htaccess" through shell returns some results: 2 files under /usr/share/phpmyadmin/ and other results under the directories for the website: /var/www.
And about AllowOverride All, in which Directory block in 000-default?