Expanding Philipp's content unlocks category, add powerups/items that change up the gameplay.
Chess or Go, for example, have zero randomness except for the people playing.
Interest will be replaced by boredom if it is the exact same game over and over.
That means games never exactly repeat and while if you play long enough you will spot patterns, you never actually play the exact same game twice.
My most successful game, which has been running without interruption for almost 20 years now, mixes the history and interaction elements and is still interesting to players (some of whom have been playing for more than a decade).
Other games have elements of randomness that keep the game fresh.
I assume that you already have some randomness, but this aspect is not strong enough to provide gameplay in itself the way that it does in card games (where playing good with the hand you were dealt is often exactly the challenge).
In your tapping game, obviously the aspects requiring other people are out.
If there is always one more world to discover, one more level to explore.
The ratio between these two is important to test out on an audience.
In this class, the successful games all have a very good balance between skill and randomness.
I feel that there are two important factors that would cause a person to keep playing a game like this.
While you get a random hand, the game is balanced so that a good player can win with almost any hand, while a bad player can absolutely lose with even the best hand.
Your game may simply be too simple to have these elements that a game requires to be eternally interesting.
There are often also multiple ways to win so you can choose a different strategy based on your hand.
Many classic games are the same game, but you play them with different people.
I would advise to play with randomness and procedural content.
like custom server with different rules, custom games like Survival Games.
Game mechanic change: instead of tapping, you slash now, like Fruit Ninja
That kind of stuff is why Enter the Gungeon and The Binding of Isaac are so popular today
You can make levels more chaotic as the game progresses so that the skill a player requires slowly changes from prediction to reaction.
In your example you're limited to a 'piano tiles' like game, so you have options like:
Most of this is from my personal experience playing mobile games, many of which have no end state, are free to play, and rely on frequent restarts to generate ad revenue.
If the game is too easy, they'll get bored with it as it doesn't offer any challenge.
What I found the strongest factor is human interaction.
Powerups: more damage, explosion damage, shield, extra heart, etc
That makes it interesting to keep playing the game.
Look at Minecraft that Game was released a century ago and is one of the most played games, because they had extra content (produced mostly by the users),
For example: You may tap to explode a rocket, but what if there was an item that made it so when you tapped, a "tower" would spawn that would help you.
If you have a multiplayer game, the fact that players constantly adapt to each other, providing a constantly changing environment, you can draw people in a lot.
If the rewards are slow to come, then they won't be incline to continue because there isn't any gratification.
If your game develops over time, even if the core game mechanics stay the same, it can provide interest.
Real world wars (seen as games following James P. Carse definition) are not interesting because weapons change, but because they are part of the history of the world.
You can make the game endless not just in time, but also in content.
Bosses: needs to be tapped 30 times, or must be encircled
The rewards could be as other have suggested (levels, power ups, achievements, a narrative)
By nature, your game is probably most close to a card game.
If you are too lazy to make an expansion, a new level or sth else, let the user do it: