WEP is easilly broken, given a reasonably short period of time sitting next to a busy network, and once you're on the network, you can view everybodies traffic.
The point is that people can listen in on your conversations even without being on your LAN or the remote LAN.
The proper way to think is that if you are using clear-text, then anyone can access this information (public info).
There have been stories in Germany where supposedly three-letter-agencies from the U.S. of A eavesdropped on traffic of a Metropolitan Area Network.
A signed certificate is not expensive, and if you're on a domain you can create your own Certificate Authority which can be used to assign certificates to encrypt traffic that will automatically be trusted by clients on the same domain.
Most of this wiring is relatively unprotected and easy to access if you know where to look, but to actually decode the data you'd probably need some very specific equipment.
This is maybe specific to Austria, but it probably looks similar all over the world.
I have heard many times that HTTPS should be used for transferring private data, since HTTP is vulnerable to eavesdroppers.
If you use HTTPS with a purchased, signed certificate, people have the opportunity to know that they're not talking to the correct server, as the certificate will be the wrong one.
*btw, try traceroute to any web site and see how many hops there are in the middle.
If you are talking SSH to the remote server, the man-in-the-middle attack won't get anywhere.
If you are talking cleartext, they can act as a proxy and see everything you do.
Depending on your ISP and on whether or not your connection is shared, others on your local loop may be able to sniff all your traffic.
Given that the destination server is not in the same Autonomous System as the user is, the traffic has to be sent over the "Internet".
There are off-the-shelf devices which can do this, you just need the right budget, intent and knowledge of the local infrastructure.
Most DSLAMs are connected via Fibre to some sort of Fibre Ring/MAN to routers of the ISP.
The DHS (or maybe some other agency) actively eavesdropped on backbone infrastructure in the USA on this level.
Easy - just follow the cable from your PC to the server.
Anybody with access to the local infrastructure can sniff the traffic
Also, in addition to eavesdropping, there's also the "man-in-the-middle" attack where someone puts themselves between you and the web server in question.
Be it on a network or to access an external web site.
There are so many nooks and crannies were a malicious operators could attach themselves, that you're best assuming that all your traffic is going to be read.
This means that all traffic for a given server can be tunneled through a machine in the same (V)LAN.
Anybody with access to the copper infrastructure and equipment which is able to decode the data can eavesdrop.
Because of that, only send public information (or information that is not terribly confidential) on clear text.
There are so many attacks and redirections that can be done that it is impossible to preview.
But in practical terms, just who is capable of eavesdropping on a given surfer's HTTP traffic?
Anything that is sensitive, confidential, private, and business related, should be sent via HTTPS.
If you throw Wireless into the link, anywhere along the way (WiFi card, Wireless Bridge, etc) then anyone who is even in the vicinity of the network can listen.
Ethernet offers no protection for hosts which are in the same (V)LAN/broadcast domain, so any host can try ARP spoofing/poisoning to impersonate another server.
This is in addition to the list of people mentioned by other answers.
Download a program called WireShark, and ask it to capture in Promiscious mode.
This is how quite a few sites were already attacked.
ARP cache poisoning for folks on your local network (or who have hacked your local network), but also DNS poisoning to make you think you're talking to someone other than who you are.
If you're going over the Internet, to use a quote from Snatch, "All Bets Are Off".