Also you can obtain a physical bitcoin, a coin that has the value printed on it ( and consists of metal that has a value by itself, lol) Also, what is the point on not having the wallet on your smartphone, where you can use it to actually buy stuff with?
I have done this on one of my Pi's following the instructions on this site
Carefully drill a hole in the chip, this would be the safest way of permanent disabling it without the risk of getting other stuff damaged that is around the wlan chip on the circuit board.
Alternatively, might it be feasible to simply shield the board or (ideally) the wireless components using a faraday bag or similar?
The original Pi Zero doesn't have Wifi and Bluetooth built-in, but it's difficult to obtain from where I live, and it only has a single MicroUSB port for input, so a standard model might be preferable.
Now, I'm a total newb when it comes to Raspberry Pi but they do seem suitable for these applications, save for the fact that most Pi boards have Wifi and Bluetooth built-in, which is actually undesirable in this case.
You could of course just break out the WLAN chip and bluetooth chip, respectively.
So my question is if and how I would be able to physically modify the board in order to disable wireless networking functionalities on a Pi Zero W or Pi 3?
I'm looking to create a cheap air-gaped computing device to store and utilize sensitive data like cryptocurrency wallet addresses or PGP keys.
But if you still wanna go for it, then do it like that:
Oh, and if you don't use the general purpose raspbian kernel and instead use, let's say, arch linux, u can cut off wlan drivers from the beginning
And you can place these inside a lead box if you're still paranoid.
You have multiple ways of protecting yourself if you feel paranoid....
this will disable your wlan chip per kernel command.
USE CORRECT DEVICE: Bitcoin can be stored on tags.
Are just 2 answeres that came to mind instantaniously.
The WLan Chip should be the little thing with the raspberry icon on it.
https://irulan.net/disable-wifi-and-bluetooth-on-raspberry-pi-3/