I know that some users of a software product that my employer sells are installing the application in a Terminal Server environment, with multiple users logging into the same system through remote desktop/terminal services applications.
This seems to provide them with the same solution that you're looking for.
Pro editions don't allow multiple users to login at once.
(Because we might need to hire a specialist to solve it for them.)
The application that you want to share might have the same restriction.
These users do make sure they've purchased multiple licenses, which is a good thing since the application does check how many users are using the specific version.
Our software will block any access if the number of users exceeds the number of licenses.
Also test this in a test environment with multiple users simulation real work loads to ensure it does operate at a multi-user level if supported by the company that supports it.
Then you only have to ensure each user has the latest VM for patches and updates and ensure the application writes it's data to a network share thus not having to worry about replacing the VM on the clients machine anytime you need to provide some fixes or hotfixes.
Contact the vendor and ensure your license allows what you are trying to achieve and that they support this configuration, so that if things dont work as expected or some other issues arise (ie: application configuration corruption, multiple copies not instantiated) you can get some help.
If the company does not support this, or it violates your license then you possibly could look at using a virtual environment that is created by the IT department and rolled out to the licensed users.
Unfortunately for those customers, we don't support this solution so if they have any installation problems or other conflicts, they'll have to solve it themselves or pay an additional fee for extra support.
Your requirements may vary and none of this information may help you in your requirements but it may give you some food for thought :)
Assuming you are using Windows you can use Remote Desktop on a Server OS to handle this.