One of my friends did this with his home computer and noticed a huge increase in throughput.
On of the other bottlenecks is actually how quick your CPU can transfer data from the memory to the network card.
Jeff Atwood has some good analysis of why real-world throughput of a Gigabit network is closer to, in his calculations, 30MB/s.
It might not be the network speed but the write/read speed of your Hard Drives.
This should allow the laptop to talk directly to the desktop.
Place a decent size file inside of it and do a transfer over the network between the RamDisks.
This should show you the actual speed of your network that won't be bottlenecked by your Hard Drive speeds.
Also, consumer grade switches can often only cope switching 1GB between any two ports whereas high end managed switches can switch at wire speed on all ports simultaneously.
To give you an idea, you should get I would think 650Mbit/s and above.
However, there are some drawbacks for low-latency applications like VOIP, as mentioned in the article.
If you see a marked increase then your router is the culprit.
Some of them have switches on the back, others can actually route between ports.
You can download RamDisk software and create a RamDisk on both computers.
Make sure you change your laptop & desktop back to DHCP when you've completed the experiment.
I think laptops are generally fairly cheaply built these days so if you don't see much above that then this could be the other bottleneck.
is that an off the shelf consumer grade router (not switch)?
That way, they will bypass the router to talk to each other.
iperf doesn't use the harddrive unless you tell it to.
If you do find this is the problem then if I were you I'd either upgrade the router (which is probably fine for internet use) or go and buy yourself a GigE switch and cascade that onto the router switch.
Set your Laptop and desktop to use a static IP address like 192.168.1.10 (laptop), 192.168.1.11 (desktop).
Networks that are on PCI express seem to operate better.
Transfer speeds are only as good as the weakest link in the chain.
That should work as most modern network cards can auto-sense transmit/receive wires unlike the old days when you used to have to build a crossover cable.
So it's memory to memory or really testing the network.
If everything is gigabit, you could try to enable jumbo frames.
Run iperf between them and report the result back here.