as an alternative to Microsoft DOS/Windows on Intel x86 based PCs.
Today, the distinctions you're referring to are almost all software (meaning the OS), and not hardware.
However, in common usage (not being picky, ie) "PC" is usually used to refer to a Windows-based x86 system derived from the original "IBM PC".
Coming back to reality, since Supercomputers are not exactly what you were asking about, you can get workstations which run UNIX.
You simply couldn't get Windows or Mac to run on one of those machines.
It is not proprietary in the sense that you can mix and match parts from different manufacturers allowing the average person to purchase parts that they require and build their own system from scratch (compared to a Mac, where they are designed to be purchased as a single unit pre-assembled, ready to go).
Then you have what you are referring to as a PC which is more often known as IBM Compatible PC's.
It is a general-purpose computer, whose size, capabilities and original sale price makes it useful for individuals, and which is intended to be operated directly by an end-user with no intervening computer operator.
It was originally designed to run only on Apple Macintosh hardware systems.
For example, most supercomputers use a proprietary variant of UNIX or Linux.
Microsoft does not create it's own hardware for windows (semantics - yes, they make mice, and tablet PCs, etc, but leave this aside for now)
("Portable" in this sense means weighing under about 75 pounds and hence theoretically capable of being carried about by one person.)
Interestingly, the Latest versions of Mac OS are based on a unix core system after Apple bought the company that Steve jobs worked at after he left apple which was at the time developing a Unix based operating system.
The original Unix was developed at AT&T's Bell Labs research center by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others.
As such, "PC" can be applied to any deskside/desktop/laptop/palmtop computer, regardless of it's architecture or operating system.
Apple create both the underlying hardware and the operating system.
Have a look at http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/ca/en/sm/WF04a/12132708-12132710-12132832-12132832-12132832.html for a couple of HP-UX workstation offerings.
As long as your computer's architecture (such as x86, x86-64, IA64, etc) matches the Windows version you are using, then it will work.
They essentially mimic UNIX-like operating systems, but by using different underlying code.
Now, UNIX is not exactly a single operating system - there's heaps of variants but they are all similar in that they attempt to follow certain specifications (defined by various groups) on how the operating system should behave.
Linux and UNIX are similar in so many ways - but with underlying differences.
It won't use other UNIX variants like AIX or SCO (though, again, you could probably get them to work with a little tweaking).
Linux - Developed originally by Linus Torvalds, it is based on the UNIX system and is very similar in many ways, however now there are many different variants (free and commercial).
So, to look at the example above, the HP c8000 workstation uses a PA-RISC processor architecture.
The underlying hardware is generally understood to be the same general purpose Intel/AMD hardware - if someone is running on something different, they'll generally make a point to specify that they're on ARM, PPC, Alpha, etc.
(Originally developed by Bell Labs, though I don't know who owns it now.)
This workstation will only run HP-UX (officially).
"PC" stands for (depending on who you ask) "Portable Computer" or "Personal Computer".
Windows - Owned and developed by Microsoft, i think we are all familiar with this so no explanation needed.
Historically speaking, all three of these differed in hardware:
IBM's Roadrunner used a variant of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL).
It's both a yes and no answer, but if you want just one, then it's No.
It is credited with popularizing the graphical user interface concept.
UNIX is an operating system that has been around, mainly on DEC PDP-11 and VAX computers, since the 60s.
Check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_UNIX_Specification and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POSIX for some bed-time reading (literally).
It was originated in, I think, the 80s by Linus Thorvolds (sp?)
MacOS - Originally delevoped in 1984 with the original Macintosh.
Unix - There are many variants of this operating system.
"Mac" refers to "Macintosh", the name of a variety of apple which was chosen by Apple computer to name their line of graphically-oriented computers.
Nowadays, when people use these terms, they're generally referring solely to the OS, though it's largely implied that a PC is a system running Windows, Mac is a system running OSX, Unix/Linux is running Unix or Linux.
LINUX is a UNIX "clone", with most of the same external features and APIs as UNIX but a different internal structure.
It could probably run some other Linux/UNIX/BSD variants with a little work, but HP won't install it for you or support the workstation if you do.
UNIX and Linux variants are operating systems, just like Mac OSX and Microsoft Windows.
But with UNIX and Linux - well, these are quite broad families of operating systems - check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Linux_distributions and the picture at the right for an example, and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unix_systems
This term was coined to differentiate between other systems at the time which where predominantly dumb terminals that connected to a mainframe on which many people would use at the same time.
Sun microsystems did a few, Silicon Graphics used to do some (and I think they might still do), but HP definitely still make a few.
For example, Cray's latest computers use Cray Linux Environment.
There are 'hackintosh' distributions of OSX out there which modify the behaviour of the operating system to stop caring so much.
The operating system essentially does some checks on the hardware and won't boot or install if it's not Mac hardware.
Windows is quite hardware agnostic - it doesn't care if you run it on an AMD or Intel or Motorola CPU, an Asus or Gigabyte motherboard, etc, etc.).
Note that each "Edition" of Windows (such as Windows 7 Pro) can come in a few architectures, which is why you'll find different installation media for each version (have a look at the
Mac (Apple Macintosh) is a proprietary system built by Apple computers, which primarily uses it's own operating system Mac-OS (some enthusiasts do manage to get other OS's running).
It is based on the open source philosophy where the source code for it is visible and modifiable by anyone who knows what they are doing (as opposed to Windows and MacOS* in a sense, where the code is proprietary and not available for the public domain).
It was designed as a multi-user, multitasking operating system.
It is free "shareware", whereas DOS/Windows and the OSx MAC operating systems are "owned" by Microsoft and Apple respectively (though, curiously, later versions of OSx are built on top of LINUX).