That's the basics if you're just wanting to host one simple Sinatra app for testing.
I would also suggest giving the fanatic support a call.
This page describes the basics of getting Sinatra to run with Passenger and Apache.
For anyone struggling with this please read instructions here, it explains it well
It'll default to a non-standard port number, but you can configure it to run on any port.
Basically if you have only one site being served from that IP address then there's nothing you need to do to associate the DNS name with the IP address on the server itself.
They can be pretty expensive once you start actively using it, but for development purposes it's quite nice.
If you're going to be hosting multiple Sinatra applications or want to do it "the proper way" then you'll need to use Passenger.
I can sympathize with the OP as I had to search for a while to figure this out, since if your coming from a background of shared hosting, how DNS works will be completely unknown if you have not read up on it or done it before
If you want to serve different websites with different domain names from the one IP address then check out http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/vhosts.
I should also mention that if you are just wanting to host something for testing/development purposes then Heroku might be good for you.
http://cloudservers.rackspacecloud.com/index.php/DNS_-_Creating_a_DNS_Record
You probably need to setup your virtual host directives.
For a computer to get your IP address from a given name, it's either got to be in the specific computer's host file, or on a DNS server.
You just have to ensure you've got the record set up appropriately on the DNS server.
You create your sinatra application as a file (say hello.rb) and then just run that file for it to start hosting your web application.
A much more detailed description is at http://igoro.com/archive/what-really-happens-when-you-navigate-to-a-url.
Basically what happens when you type www.example.com in your browser is this.
Sinatra applications are a bit different to standard webservers like Apache.