ffmpeg -i "input.flv" -vn -acodec copy "output.mp3"
If there's no other source for your file you should keep the version you have.
You should avoid transcoding audio whenever possible.
Furthermore, AAC has a low bitrate mode called HE-AAC which employs some sophisticated algorithms to reproduce high frequencies and stereo in a very bandwidth-preserving way.
If you must re-encode it, the best result you can achieve is the same quality by choosing a losless codec like FLAC or ALAC.
The European Broadcast Union has released a review of the different codecs: http://tech.ebu.ch/docs/tech/tech3324.pdf
Because of that, HE-AAC allows you to go as low as 32 kbps for music and 16 kbps for speech, while maintaining an acceptable listening experience.
If you need to identify the audio format, any decent video player should be enough, or you can use:
If you need to change the video format, you may be able to keep the audio in the same encoding.
You can just extract the audio stream without conversion, any conversion implies quality loss*.
You can't "improve" the signal by re-encoding the output into another lossy format (mp3 etc.).
Sometimes for some of us it feels complicated to use command line, if you do this often, you can simply create a .bat file then drag the video file to the bat file with this contents:
For instance if you use the ffmpeg command line tool, you can give it the argument -acodec copy to instruct it to just copy audio data from one container to another without decoding and re-encoding it.
It doesn't make sense to re-encode audio to a higher bitrate, but the bitrate might have to be somewhat higher if you want to reduce a further degradation in quality.
*I'm talking about lossy conversions, lossless conversions done right can retain quality, but it is rare to use them when extracting lossy audio.
Overall, I would probably pick AAC, because it is widely supported, supports a wide range of bitrates and usually beats competitors at any bitrate.
You only need to change the extension if you will be extracting other audio format.
It's a new open format that supposedly performs very well.
That would be the way to go if, for instance, you're just doing something with the video, like burning in hard subtitles or changing resolution or whatever.
If compatibility is not a concern for you, consider looking into Opus.
The same command could be used for almost any format/video, just change the input file name and the output extension to the desired/correct one (i.e.