(Certain kinds of physical mechanisms such as locked boxes, devices implementing oblivious transfer, and quantum states can also come in handy.
Partially this is due to the fact the information-theory and the crypto community have been working on similar topics without really interacting enough with each other.
Of course there is always some kind of physical assumption about who can see what information.)
Some research groups in Europe have pursued this line of research; more specifically, because of my interest in information theory I have ran into the work of Ueli Maurer and his school, which is both significant from purely information theoretic point of view (which I am more familiar with) and also offers some practical approaches to information theoretic security.
Related to the above line of work, some places you might want to consider looking at are the PhD thesis of Christian Cachin and also Renato Renner (more quantum).
This is a fairly complex question, as we really don't have a good overview of the area.
The key phrases you are probably looking for are "information-theoretic cryptography" and "quantum cryptography".
Suppose $P = NP$ and a fast linear-time algorithm for SAT appears tomorrow.
One can distinguish between information-theoretic security (which works against a computationally unbounded adversary) and "unconditional" security (which may require a bounded adversary, but still shows security under no unproven assumptions).
Searching the literature on these topics will turn up lots of work of the sort you are looking for.
Of course, there is a whole different approach with keywords including BB84, Preskill-Shor, Artur Ekert, etc.
Question: Is there a good single reference (or short list) to gain a big-picture view of what is possible in crypto (and in the allied field of "security") without intractability assumptions?
Discussion: Most of the cryptographic tasks we now study (OWFs, PRGs, PKE) are provably impossible in the $P = NP$ world (a world dubbed "Algorithmica" in an influential essay by Impagliazzo), but some things remain possible: communication with a one-time pad; distributed secret sharing; private info retrieval; and some other nice things.
This could save civilization one day, and would also be nice to peruse in the meantime.
I would just like to add a few extra observations:
Suddenly RSA is insecure, much of our modern communication system is broken, and we need to reconsider how to keep secrets from each other.
There are lots of papers on those topics; too many to summarize all the results in the literature.
The above of course only reflects my limited experience, and surely there are many more approaches and interesting lines of work.
For starters, here is one bibliography of information-theoretic security (which, for my purposes, is unmanageably long and disparate).