Generally T1s are most useful for those who run servers because of the 1.5 up as well, the synchronous aspect is what is important.
I'm moving to a house on a road with not very many people.
A contract guaranteeing that your T1 will be up at least some specified portion of the time.
Most people are fine with bridged circuits and they are much easier to configure for basic needs.
Maybe - the house may have been previously wired for a second voice line.
), they're going to be running through the same areas and likely the same conduits, so anything that takes one down will have a good chance of taking them all down.
I'm not sure of what my true throughput would be, and if it would be a hassle to configure it properly for different sites.
The only options for wired high speed internet are DSL or T1.
I'm trying to decide between multiple DSL lines and a single T1.
With DSL, you can't get that and, even if you've got the wiring available for multiple DSL lines (Two?
If you need absolute reliability and uptime guarantees, then you need the T1.
I've been quoted $30/month per DSL line or $220/month per T1.
If you need high speed and low cost, DSL's the way to go.
You might be better off load balancing an ADSL2 and cable line, it will provide for better redundancy (if one network goes down, the other will remain up).
DSL certainly gives you a lot more bandwidth for your buck, but keep in mind the three magic letters that you get along with the T1 line:  SLA.
If I went with DSL I would likely get 4 lines and then use a Ciso RV016 router to load-balance them.
T1s are better for latency and have a better SLA for repairs, though multiple load balanced DSL lines will provide for more bandwidth and greater redundancy (if a line goes down, your speed drops, but your connection stays up, so a few extra days for repair won't kill you, but an area outage would).
T1s also give the option of routed blocks as they are routed circuits and not bridged, so you can more easily manage multiple public IPs, which is again great if you run servers.