That way, when you wish to change all the titles you just modify the style, and all of them (titles) will be changed.
LaTeX can generate its own index, its own glossary and the like (that's what I mean with introjection).
When I have a larger order, or when I'm doing an order with someone else, to save shipping costs, I just add another page with a table and all the parts I need go in there.
Just make some organization when you're typing them in - one recipe per page; the title is always in one style (consistent), the text in another.
What is more -- family recipe books are never completely written,
I have a different solution, that came to my mind, and that I use myself:
I like the neat and organized form of that recipe card.
I can access this from everywhere, and you can easily design each page, etc.
Most technical books are written in LaTeX, this gives the publisher the possibility of changing layout, like font, page design etc.
Apart from that approach, there are also specialized editors for recipes specifically - for example, EasyRecipe is a nice one (although there are probably  others as well).
Well, I see nothing wrong with Word and its format.
So you can download every page as PDF, which is great for printing or sending it to someone.
At the same time, the document has a certain introjection, It knows about paragraphs, about sections, etc, deciding what text goes at what pages, is something that's done in the design process, and should be left for later.
they can open the wiki in their favorite browser and platform -- no other tools required!
I myself use LaTeX for larger texts, I have a header file that does all the settings for me, and the actual content goes in a separate file, that contains not much more that the text itself, then I do just a pdflatex mydoc.tex and voilà, I've got a nice PDF with my report or whatever.
It would be fun to zip the TiddlyWiki file and gift it to someone;
When writing a book, no matter which one, there's one tool that is there to rule them all:
Find a nice cover (something tasty ;-), a table of contents (which you can autogenerate) and put page numbers on pages.
there is always new recipes, modifications and extensions -- perfectly managed with a wiki.
I forgot to mention, that using LaTeX under Windows is just as easy as under other operating systems.
You could easily put each recipe in one file and assemble them together in another one, that includes all the other, with layout information and settings.
The great thing about DokuWiki is, it doesn't use databases.
You can handle huge amounts of data, and you do all typing with a normal text editor (preferably with syntax highlighting) if you want a 5mm space between one line and the other:
Once you get used to it, you find using things like Word cumbersome, slow, and uncomfortable.