Services run on certain ports to allow connections from other computers.
One VLAN is for the commons area (students can use systems) and one is for management.
I have checked the passwords and credentials and they appear to be correct (checked against a collegues' settings).
The trick here is to aquire some kind of full duplex software which will run on both machines and be able to recognize the reason for non-connections or non recognition.
Computers use certain ports to communicate with other systems and to allow communication to their own system.
I downloaded Microsoft Connection Manager and added multiple .rdg files for different servers I need to access.
I see no one making available, stand alone network troubleshooting programs, dedicated to ONLY LAN [NOT INTERNET].
Now from the commons, I can ping management systems, but if I wanted to connect through RDP, HTTP, SMTP, SSH, etc.
I can browse to only a few of them, but most of them I get the following errors:
First, ensure the system you are trying to RDP into has the Remote-Desktop service listening.
Depending on the network configuration, perhaps port 80/443 (Http/Https) are allowed through (a firewall, VLAN trunk, etc.)
Maybe it should but the exception wasn't added to that systems local firewall or perhaps the standard 3389 port has been changed.
There is a lot of other stuff that goes on in the background (DNS, NAT, etc.)
Are you on the same subnet as the people who can connect to that system?
The Problem here is that although you can ping and tracert between two machines [windows] neither machine will recognize the other as anything at all.
Maybe the server you are trying to RDP into doesn't even allow RDP connections (no port/service listening).
For example, when you connect to Google.com, you use a web-browser which sends out a connection to Google.com (connecting to google) on port 80 (Http) or 443 (Https).
I can ping the servers and I get get a reply from them but cannot connect to them through Connection Manager.
All I want to do is transfer files between two machines using the ETHERNET and can find no programs easy to use which will do this.
Ethernet is by far the best way I know to do this.
What things can I do to investigate/fix this problem?
This means to me that no software capable of handling the connected computers is running.
I think the big boys make it hard to network locally on purpose.
After that, ensure that there is an exception in the firewall to allow connections to that service.
Also, for two of the servers I can navigate to them in the browser (but cannot connect to them in Connection Manager)
We have over 25 VLAN's on our Cisco Catalyst 6513 switch.
Since you are a "newbie" as you put it, ill explain it in layman's terms.
Just because you can ping a system or connect to it through a web-browser does not mean you can connect through other methods.
Can other people RDP into the machine you are trying to RDP into?
The main thing that puzzles me is why I can browse to them in the browser for some of the servers, or ping them when they cannot be connected to in Connection Manager.
I would not be able to because traffic on those certain ports is not allowed to be passed to those systems on the other VLAN.
OR, necessary ports are being blocked one way or another.
I have seen a few solutions to similar problems on the net that recommend clearing the tcp ip stack; but I'm not sure if this applies to the above.
It needs to have its own ETHERNET drivers independant of the operating system.
There are numerous other factors but without knowing your environment, there are various factors which could be the issue.
Reseeting the TCP/IP, Winsock stack could help, but unlikely the issue.
I put TO GOOGLE there because your system doesn't use port 80 to send the outbound connection, it is connecting TO GOOGLE on port 80.
As I know very little about servers and networks, I would like to know how I can investigate this further and find out (and fix) why some of them are connecting and some aren't - especially as I can ping them but not connect to them?
Each VLAN is restricted from the other with certain conditions.
but I'm trying to keep this as simple as possible.
Sorry in advance if this question is a bit newbi-ish.
Could be as simple a ipconfig /release /renew /flushdns or could be as complicated as tunneling traffic.
There are a variety of factors but the first thing that comes to mind in MY environment at work is trunking.
from the management VLAN, I can connect to whatever system on whatever port I want (in the commons) but from the commons, only certain kinds of traffic is allowed through (21,22,80,443,135,137,445, etc.)