FIddler adds fake certificate for every tunnel connection it detects.
After rebooting, run the Windows App troubleshooter again.
Restart your computer once more and try launching the Windows Store.
Somehow this manipulations removed the connection problem, but I can't say if it is some kind of bug, or consequence of hijacking or so...
displays the above message - even though other apps can connect) make sure that your date and time are set correctly
Also, if your Windows is installed on some other drive, replace C above with the system root drive.
you may want to 'hide' this update from your system.
if prompted, say yes you want to remove the software as well
Note: replace the text  with the username connected to your account.
I had a problem with Microsoft store, also creating new MS account for Windows 8 and even with getting developer license for Visual Studio at the same time.
If you do not live in the default Windows 8 time zone and so set the time zone during your initial setup of Windows 8 then you must manually set the data and time as well or it will be incorrect, and results in the above problem.
Note: In the event that the cache folder is not present by default, just create an empty new folder and name it cache.
It became obvious that problem is related to SSL certificates after I also installed Fiddler (a desktop app for inspecting traffic) and enabled its HTTPS sniffing feature.
Than I turned off Fiddler, removed fake certificates via certmgr.msc (finding them by "fiddler" keyword), and store was still operating.
Click this to run it and my store began working again.
it will find the device, install it's own drivers, and work fine... until it updates again.
Launch File Explorer, copy and paste the following path in the address bar and hit Enter:
If you have a new installation of Windows 8 and the Store tells you that it cannot connect to the Internet (ie.
I find rolling back the drivers in Windows 8 doesn't work, so here we will un install the device, remove the software, and then reboot windows.
In the LocalState folder, check if the cache folder is showing or not.
Close the File Explorer and restart your computer.
C:\Users\\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.WindowsStore_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalState
This can be done with Tools - Fiddler Options - HTTPS - Decrypt HTTPS traffic.
After that MS Store started to work and also I was able to get developer license.
Right click in the bottom right hand corner (invisible start button)
Select search and type WSReset, the app will show up on the left.
Windows update has installed a new driver for you, how helpful!