For some reason, my call was misinterpreted as a downstream speed complaint and my call was forwarded to a technician who carried out a BER test.
I use a Zyxel P-660HN-T1A modem/residential gateway to connect to my home ADSL subscription.
After doing this (and verifying that there were no issues), he mentioned the presence of 2 devices connected via WIFI and wanted to know if I knew about this as they might be downloading data unbeknownst to me.
The modem you have allows remote management via TR-069, which could allow access to the information mentioned.
Sometimes they also collect some metadata on the devices connected to the modem and their internet usage etc.
During setup, the ISP downloads a special program into your Modem's operating system that links up with the Control systems at the ISP in order to manage your Modem, in the interest of serving your needs.
That's probably why he was trying to make sure that you were aware that could cause your internet to be slow.
There's really no way for him to enumerate this info via a single remote connection to the modem.
Furthermore, he went on to suggest that I should secure my WLAN with a passphrase.
This is usually the "modem" and anything integrated into that device.
He asked you if you had a secured wifi network with the logic that un authenticated users could be eating up your bandwidth.
Should we assume that the ISP has admin access to the device and is essentially on the local network at all times, despite me changing all default logins long ago (including the telnet login credentials)?
You mentioned that you have an unsecured wifi, which whatever your reasons are, is open for anyone to connect to and compete for your bandwidth.
My obvious question: How did the tech support agent attain this information?
It's not like they have access to your internal network or something outlandish.
If you don't trust them for any reason I strongly suggest limiting the functions provided by the "modem" and attaching whatever equipment you supply to it (eg, modem plugged into a WiFi router).
It's common for ISPs to have full access to the CPE.
I called my ISP today to inquire about upgrading to a faster broadband package.
Some of the functions this achieves are regulating internet speed, traffic, updating firmware among others.