Vista SP2 does not have Server 2008 SP2 as a prerequisite, so this can be installed in any order.
I would give it at least a week before installing on anything but a test machine - I've never seen an emergency Service Pack retraction more than a day or 2 after release.
The next step is to deploy as fast as possible - it may contain security enhancements not in SP1 + Automatic updates.
But it's highly dependent on the TYPE of patch or Service Pack.
Few (other admins/power users [this is where most of your problems will come from])
Once it is released there, we deploy to test and development machines (and our own, IT-staff desktop if applicable).
Critical Security Updates should be applied ASAP, most everything else can wait a bit, especially Service Packs.
Now that Microsoft have released Vista & Server 2008 SP2 (see Lifehacker).
Ideally you should then then test all critical applicaitons and then rollout once you are confident that they aren't impacted, and can schedule the down time with your users.
This came up today in a conversation with our SysAdmin folks.
If they are not critical updates, wait about a week to deploy each series.
Patches should be deployed in the following manner.
So, it could take a few months, total, before we push it out broadly.
This would apply equally to system types 1-4 above.
As long as your machines are otherwise fully patched against security exploits I wouldn't be too worried about rushing the SP on in the short term, but the longer you wait, the more vunerable you become.
If there are incompatibilities with SP2 and your environment, the actual timeline for deployment may be many weeks as these are resolved by either the application supplier or Microsoft.
A good time buffer is based on when the service pack is released to Windows Update and/or WSUS.
Then wait a month for the next round of "Patch Tuesday" fixes before pulling the trigger on pushing it out through WSUS.
Part of deployment planning is testing in your environment.
For servers you should have a good roll back strategy and the nature of the applications that they host should dictate when they get updated.