Make sure to discuss your beta on PC, mac, and linux-focused forums.
Players who are engaged, especially if your game is actually good, are never going to remember bugs that occurred if they have to go out of the engine to file them.
You could have those go to the bug tracker, or you could just have it email a holder address.
If you use Mechanical Turk you can design your own form and ask the questions you're interested in.
I'm also concerned that people will be more concerned about having the tweaks they want to see added to the patch than really testing the work that has been done.
I've found for $1 you can have a player try your game for a few minutes and provide feedback across a number of categories.
levels 8-10 are still being worked out and will be a bit better next week."
To get platform coverage, you could try going directly to those communities.
The main goal is to make it easy to file stuff, although this may not be possible for an 11 year old game.
I've done a lot of work (pro-bono) on a patch to a commercial game from ~11 years ago that needs some beta testing.
You should ask players to specify what platforms they have available in the beta application as well.
Using Analytics it's easy to instrument your game and measure things such as play time, where players are quitting, etc.
Finally, I have heard that some people will release their games to a portal such as Newgrounds using an alias and then use Analytics as well as a built in form to collect feedback from players.
If you combine both methods you can get a great deal of information for relatively cheap.
One good way to do this could be to semi-publicly expose your bug tracking software itself.
Lastly, you may consider sending out some sort of "status of the test" email periodically.
If you're using Flash or Silverlight then I would recommend integrating Google Analytics or something similar.
I would strongly suggest having an in-game bug-filing option, preferably a big button that says "FILE BUG HERE".
That way your beta testers can literally do QA for you.
What are some ways to get good (by that I mean useful) feedback during the beta test phase for a game?
Of course make sure you know what you want to measure before you start spending money.
That way you'll make sure to get a few from each group.
Something like "Hey, we just changed the weapon balance, can you guys focus on levels 4-7 for today?
Are there any good software packages (like a web portal) for running a beta test for a project like this?
In that case I would support both direct email and a website link, and maybe force the testers to go through some trivial front end that exposes a "file a bug" button so they remember it exists.
Most bug tracking software (Trac is a good free one if you don't have one set up already) already has a good web frontend, and you could open that up to everyone in the beta directly.
Anything you can do to focus the testing process will work out to your advantage.
I've got lots of people who want to play with it, but I'm concerned about getting good feedback without getting bogged down in the development.
Additionally, I would recommend using a service such as Flash Game License's "First Impressions" or just going to Amazon's Mechanical Turk directly.