as explained by @John K in his answer this allow to adjust cable length at need.
Structured cabling is not use only for Ethernet connection.
The ANSI/TIA/EIA Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard specifies the horizontal cable up to 90 meters, and stranded patch cords not totaling more than 10 meters on each end.
What if you don't use a patch panel, then decide you have to move your switch further down the rack or you need to move the connection to equipment in a different location in the rack?
With the time the cable, and especially the connector, may get screwed up and can cause various network issue very hard to diagnostic.
The combination of good performing  horizontal cable, and poor performing stranded patch cords should pass the test suite for the cable category you installed.
If you must redo the connector, you need to get someone experimented with the proper tool, and then have the cable certified again.
The horizontal cable needs to be solid-core cable.
Now your cable is not long enough to reach the new location.
You are screwed because now you have to run an entire new cable through the walls.
With a patch panel you would just grab a longer patch cable and be done with it.
You can use it to connect for example a phone / DSL line, a fax or other device using a RJ11 or RJ12 connector, or a console cable (very useful to get the console of a network device in your comfortable office rather than in a noisy and cold IT rool).
this type of cable gives better performance, but it is much more fragile, and it needs to to terminate in a fixed location, and not be moved after installation.
Patch cords use stranded cable, which have poorer performance, but they are much less fragile.
A patch panel with, fixed cable properly attached, is much more resilient, easier to diagnose, and you only need to change the inexpensive patch cable.
You could find your cable plant does not work correctly if you use stranded cable for the horizontal cable, as someone on Server Fault did.