Benchmarked speed of the hosting provider is also going to vary over time, and other issues are just as important.
If you want more details, check out the numbers at http://www.hostbenchmarker.com
To test for download speed, lots of hosts have a static large file that you can try to download.
You have to attend a forum specified in this subject.
Generally speaking, it's very difficult to come to a conclusion, as the data you want, is location-specific..
Is there any way to get information about speed of their servers, network speed?
Of course this isn't reliable because that'll be one of the most optimised machines/connections on their network and it's only one file which is liable to be cached somewhere en-route, but it's a start.
Ask them for the location and they'll let you see how fast it is.
Do you know some places where I can find such information or perfom some simple benchmarks by myself?
Speed to respond to critical issues, value for money and uptime are all just as vital as network and machine speed.
I'm about to choose some hosting provider for my project.
You'll have a whole server to load network diagnostics on, and then you can decommission it when you're done.
I actually benchmarked a bunch of popular hosts and shared the results on a website I created.
It's a free tool that not only shows page load time, but also a waterfall chart of where things are taking the longest to load.
I think it would be very interesting to see such (average) data for let's say 1 year.
Some providers do offer large files for you to download from their networks to prove their speed.
To test for uptime, use a service like Pingdom or UptimeRobot.
They will hit the website every minute and record downtime for you to see.
Just be sure that you consider that there may be a file size difference between hosts.
This can be very affordable if you just need a system for an extremely short period.
To test for page speed, try a tool like WebPageTest.org.
Many hosting providers now offer virtualized servers where you just pay for time used.
I agree with you that hosting benchmarks are crucial to picking a host.