That should at least be enough to get you started.
Once created, open a cmd prompt on a desktop machine, and type:
While not exactly what you're after, why not use a URL shortener on your internal servers?
So apparently you need a combo of DNS CNAME and HTTP Redirects.
The URL shortener would rewrite that to your necessary internal URL.
How about creating a DNS entry for "expenses.mycompany.com" that sends to a webserver with a redirect rule of expenses.mycompany.com -> mycompany.com/expenses?
You mention that this is a windows environment, but don't tell us what the websites are hosted on.
It means a few extra DNS entries, and some virtual hosts on the webserver that do nothing but redirect to the "real" URLs?
Someone over at brighthub wrote a howto do this for a internal helpdesk url shortcut.
The IP address of the web address will not change amongst the different 'shortcuts'... i.e:
Then you can setup a virtual host on your server that hosts the URL shortener, and do something like:
When a user types expenses in the browser address bar and presses enter, I want the browser to automatically direct to the specified address as above.
I'm not sure if I worded the question correctly to be honest but basically what I want to do is:
Repeat for any other "quick " names you want to use.
I hope I have put my question forward appropriately :-)
DNS relates a DNS name to an IP address in the case of an A record.
As long as clients have a DNS suffix of "mycompany.com" set they will convert "expenses" into expenses.mycompany.com, and hit that webserver.
What you can do is setup a proxy server that all clients must use to access the web and you can do it that way.
I'm guessing Windows too, but assuming 2008 as you don't state.
The other alternative is as mfarver says, you'll need to setup a DNS record pointing to a host that reads the host header requests, and redirects appropriately.
If you have IIS installed on the server hosting "domain.com" and all the sub folders, you will want to install the URL Rewrite module (details can be found here).
<meta http-equiv="Refresh" content="0;URL=http://www.mydomain.com/newpage.html"/>
These can be CNAME/Alias records pointing to the domain.com entry.
This would need to be done via a URL Rewrite rule in IIS (or apache if you want to run it on windows), or some code to do all the work for you.
The response for both ping statements should have the same IP address.
Or just have a www proxy before your webserver that proxies requests based on yours to the correct IP
Once installed, you will need to create DNS entries for "Expenses", and "tracker".
Once DNS has been confirmed working, you will need to go to the web server hosting domain.com, and create an IIS rewrite rule that looks something like this:
They both do essentially the same thing as the URL shortener.
When a user types in something like Expenses in the URL bar of a browser, I want the browser to be directed to a specific web address (very very similar to how OpenDNS shortcuts work)