It's not a straight answer to your question, but I do hope it's inspiring ;-) .
To use the PSTN, you will need a box (like SPA3102), connected on the RJ45 side, between your cordless phone and the PSTN jack, and, on the Ethernet side, between your router and your Raspberry: can be configured as a bridge or DHCP server.
Your SPA3102 (I recommend) will be configured as a 'trunk' when dealing with the incoming and outgoing PSTN phone calls, and as a SIP extension with dealing with your cordless phone.
There is a nice article (by Cisco) that details step by step the building your own PBX: Build your Raspberry PBX
A while ago, FreePBX dropped the 'SIP' stack replacing by a modern 'PJSIP' stack, concepts are the same but the configuration is slightly different.
There is many info to be found online about the great amount of options that Asterisk has to offer, so I think you'll be happy hacking for some time is you want to make it really neat!
Once you installed Asterisk (or both) I suggest you read the various how-to documents on the asterisk site to get the basics to work, like actually calling, voice mail boxes etc and connect a couple of software-phones.
SKYPE also provide (paid) SIP trunks: the service is not the same than the add-on for your smartphone.
Cause it will already overwhelm you with options to set and things to configure.
When all that works I think you're ready to add an outside line so you can call in from an external network.
Also, at least in USA, there are multiple very cheap SIP trunk providers, offering you public phone numbers (Callcentric) .
I also want Pi to 'control stuff in the house', but I chose SMS, as it's (b) proven technology (b) easier to understand and set up.
Because I was also new to PBX I did not install the FreePBX because I wanted to get the feeling for the settings manually.
I also played some time ago with Asterisk, but not installed on the RPi.
To have your first two extensions, your smart phone can run any SIP phone app (Linphone works nicely).
As described here, you just need to use these commands to get the two packages installed:
There was an article in Elektor a while back that I applied to Pi.
First of all, I'd list the things you need to control via this connection as setting up PBX would be neat, but might be overkill.
But installing Asterisk and FreePBX might be the first step in your process.
The RPi was/is configured as phone to use the Asterisk server (installed on a intel Fedora PC).
Along with Asterisk, FreePbx is a nice package allowing you to have a fully functional PBX in a Raspberry Pi.