BUT - why don't you just hit reply and ask the person what they sent you?
You might also want to consider whether the file is really a text file, but in an uncommon encoding.
It does not recognize everything, but still a lot.
It's possible that it could be an encoding problem.
Add a comment to this answer, if you do wish me to have a look at this email.
I would run a virus scanner on it before attempting this though.
I blogged about doing this once at http://www.gregcons.com/KateBlog/IDoLoveSolvingAMystery.aspx and recommended Marco Pontello's absolutely cool File Identifier, TrID, which you could try.
Many office firewalls block the email of certain types of attachments.
There are various applications to identify file types by their content.
If it's some Asian language, it might just be an unusual encoding.
Most of them start with a highly recognizable sequence of characters.
And you could poke around wikipedia and find the format rules for such file types.
If you don't have access to a Linux computer, any modern Linux LiveCD (e.g.
Your best bet might be to try to load it as a Unicode (UTF) encoding.
If you know them, ask them what's in the attachment.
Encoding is the way that your computer interprets and displays a file containing text.
It's possible that the file is a zip or a pdf or a docx or a thousand other things.
there's [file][1], which is invoked on the command line simply as
If the file contains characters that are not supported in a specific encoding, it could create a problem like the one you describe.
If you open the file in a text editor with multiple encoding support (other than the default Notepad, unfortunately) you may be able to choose a function such as "Reload As..." and then choose from a list of encodings.
If you don't know them, the mystery attachment is probably malicious.
It's quite possible it's a malicious worm that your friend didn't know about.
Try pasting the first few characters into google.. it may be able to tell you the file type.. then rename the .txt file to the true filetype and try opening it.
To save the mail, use Save As in your client (normally in .eml format), or drag the mail to the desktop (if this is supported).
It would help to know which email clients were you and your friend using, and the name of the attachment.
I don't suppose that the attachment is called winmail.dat by any chance?
It would also help, unless it's too personal, to post the received mail for us.