In order to acomplish this you simply feed it with multiple orthogonal frequencies.
For example, in DVB-C television signal the net bitrate is about 50 Mb/s (per 8 MHz channel), while the carrier frequency is anything between 100 MHz and 1 GHz.
It's slightly more complex in reality, but not too much.
Then you invert the second wire once again at the receiving end and sum it with original one - interferences will cancel out.
Since you've asked about Gigabit Ethernet over copper - 1000BASE-T specifically:
With QAM256 modulation one symbol encodes 8 bits, so 50 Mb/s generates about 6250 kS/s (6.25 million of symbols per second).
And how close is the above graphic to todays copper-cables (twister-pair)?
1 is represented by a voltage of 3 and 0 by a voltage of 0.
With DVB-T schema this is even more complicated, as each channel contains ~2000 or ~8000 subcarriers (COFDM), so the actual "voltages" change their value 20000~80000 faster than the actual bitrate.
As I can imagine, only one voltage is possible at a time on a cable (So you cannot have 2 voltage and 3 voltage at the same time on the same medium right).
Let's clear something more - although not related to Ethernet itself, but how this is done in general "in copper" (and "in the air" as well).
A somewhat sophisticated encoding (four-dimensional trellis code modulation) with PAM-5 (5 different voltage levels) brings the symbol rate to 125 MBaud - this is the same as 100BASE-TX, thus the same Cat-5e cabling requirements, but each lane transports 2.5x the information content.
This means that one symbol is transmitted during 160 ns (in reality this is more complicated, but let's keep this simple).
Does the voltage change in a cable which for instance transmits 1 Gbit/s really 1 billion times?
Actually, you can as many "voltages" in a cable as you want (only limited by conductor bandwidth and quality of transmitter/receiver equipment).
The codes are also designed in such a way that you can use them for clock synchronization.
Of course this will produce single "voltage" output (with weird waveform), but they are re-separatable at the other end.
There are about 100 separate channels of 8 MHz width within allowed band, so you can send about 5 Gb/s over coaxial cable, while all the "voltages" are changing ca.
The gigabit data stream is separated into four lanes of 250 Mbit/s each.
In case of frequency/phase-modulated signals (FM/PM) the actual voltage change is many times faster than the resulting digital bitrate itself.
If you have multiple wires available, you can use them to send multiple signals at the same time (increasing throughput or decreasing frequency).
Additional encoding is also used, for example 8-bit values can be transmitted using 10-bit codes.
1000BASE-T uses all four twisted pairs simultaneously in both directions.
This reduces throughput, but allows for error detection/correction.
You can also use them to reduce interference - if you have a twisted pair, you can send real signal through one wire and inverted signal through the other.
50 billion (short scale) times per second (estimated as: 500 MHz mean carrier frequency multiplied by 100 channels).