(Source: IBM) Which is why you'll find larger sized hard drives will actually give you better transfer rates (more data per sector).
A step beyond that in complexity and price would be a NAS with some good RAID 5 storage, again SAS at 15000 rpm.
That CF RAID jacks up capacity to 64GB with striping speed -- useful for many other applications.
If you're looking for consistent speed for accessing data from external hard drives on your Mac avoid USB 2.0 if at all possible - use Firewire or eSATA (if you have a MacPro or Power Mac G5) instead.
In other words, it uses the same interface as your internal hard drives and so they run at full speed (up to 300MB/s)
A 7200 RPM drive should be sufficient for most applications depending on what file you're attempting to read and how fast.
Look at a NAS - you can get them with 2 drives and RAID which should be super quick, and they just hang off your local network - not as bulky as a new computer :)
It won't be sufficient for Uncompressed HD, REDCODE, etc.)
Photofast CR-7200 CompactFlash Adapter Runs Four microSDs In RAID
Those are the theoretical speeds that a single connection can give you - whether or not the hard drive(s) you have connected can saturate that link is a different story.
RAIDs, fibre channel networks, or even 10-gigabit (or even 100-gigabit) ethernet networks can get very expensive very fast but can offer speeds not possible with more normal connections.
If you need redundancy too, look at the linked article for mirroring with striping.
For a good local option go with RAID 1, mirrored disks, with some good SAS drives at 15000 rpm.
The theoretical maximum data transfer rate on a hard drive can be determined by dividing the  sectors per track * 0.5kb divided by the revolution time.
When you need to store large amounts of data with access speed,
As an aside, there are now Compact Flash devices that incorporate RAID striping for
Remember, while we say RAID here, its not about redundancy but, speed.
Anyway a quick rundown for theoretical speeds you can get from the different connections:
Not as fast as 10gb fibre channel SAN, but should be really fast.
The truly fastest option but probably completely unrealistic is a SAN.
While USB 2.0 has a higher theoretical throughput than say Firewire 400 (480 vs. 400) it's real world throughput is less and is "bursty" which can result in dropped frames quite easily.
eSATA is exactly the same as having the hard-drive connected internally in your computer, except that it's external.
The other way as specified before is to set up a RAID in order to attempt to saturate the link you have between the hard drive(s) and your computer.
If you don't have an eSATA port, you can purchase an eSATA PCIe card to put into your computer.
Though you could actually do something between a NAS and a full on SAN.
However, that may not be a good solution for working with a 80GB file,
Then put another network card (gigabit ethernet) into your workstations(s) and use a dedicated network to access your NAS.
Get yourself set up with a NAS on its own dedicated switch, and a different network.