I'm interested in learning what security, or other related Windows updates I've been (or not) getting.
Click on download and here you see a downloadlink:
To get the last update, you need to check which windows 10 feature version you use.
Apparently, when I search for Windows 10 updates, there are only a pitiful few since I reinstalled Windows 10 earlier this month; 4 quality, 19 Driver and 1 listed as "other."
If I'm experiencing a security issue, then I would like to immediately perform counter-measures.
I'm hoping that nothing is wrong and I'm panicking over nothing.
Looking online, I see a list of updates here https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4018124/windows-10-update-history that are for "Windows" but nothing else specifically.
Download the update and double click on the .MSU to install it.
I've spammed windows update and while it seems to pull updates in, it never says that it's installing them and doesn't list any new dates in the list(s).
Rarely have I experienced frustration as severe as this; it may be because I've never had a problem with something this basic even when I was new waaaaay back on XP.
In Windows 10, the updates (except Servicing Stack and Adobe Flash updates) are cumulative, which means, they replaced older ones.
Please help...There must be some admin tool I'm overlooking in this newer OS or even a 3rd party tool that I could use to view a complete history..
Here I run the windows 10 anniversary update Version 1607.
Here I can see that there are 2 newer updates compared to my.
Click this link and here you get download links for 32Bit (x86) and 64 Bit (x64) version of the update:
So I have to check the entry Updates for Windows 10 Version 1607 and Windows Server 2016 on the Update history page
Checking Windows Defender, I find that its saying that it's also receiving updates but I can't see any of them.
On this site, there is a link to the Microsoft Update Catalog website:
I mean I once retrieved a product key through a 3rd party tool but I'm coming up empty this time...