I must ask, if it's a driver or a malfunction service, shouldn't windbg log that and break after the kernel exception?
All these facts seems to point to a registry corruption of some kind.
Ok, that's the scenario, I think what I must do now is reinstall the windows again and start tracing and logging all kind of writes to registry hoping to find a clue.
So at this point I can just think in a really nasty thing the application does over the registry that corrupts the entire system, or maybe all these is caused by a windows update; I think the former is more likely.
Does anyone know how can I log all the activity that applications performs over the registry?
I'm new in the kernel debugging field but I find very strange that even with the kernel debugger attached, the system reboots leaving no other logs but the loaded modules and some other lines which gives no clue to what is causing that behavior.
The problem is that every time it initiates and displays the login window, the machine reboots with no warnings, no alerts, no bsod either.
Any kind of recommendation or guideline will be very grateful.
I'm having troubles with a virtual machine on a ESXi running windows server 2003 r2.
This fixed the issue it for a while but when the server was put back into production the problem came back.
It doesn't matter what I do, I can just wait a few seconds or I can actually login and try to do something, the result is the same.
On the other hand, if I load last known good configuration, the system works normally.
The thing here is that I can't manage to set that configuration as the default one, becouse at the next reboot if I select normal boot the issue arise again.
I also think it's one of the server's applications but I don't know which and I can't probe it either.
I also tried reinstalling windows in order to patch the registry.
The critical application which the server runs is SIOPEL(http://www.siopel.com.ar/)
It's worth to know this server runs several critical application so I must get through this problem.