As Flip says, it looks like the problem is around what mysql is doing.
I/O waiting on a database server - particularly on load spikes - is a clue that your DBMS might be either disk bound (i.e.
For a high level approximation, a system that is 50% saturated has an average queue length of 2.
Thus, on a system that is close to saturation, small changes in load can result in large changes to wait times, in this case manifesting as time spent waiting on I/O.
You should probably also look into profiling your database server - i.e.
Crank up your mysql logging to see if there's bad code in there / changing indexes would help.
If the I/O capacity of your disk subsystem is nearly saturated then small changes in load can result in significant changes in response times.
The output from top suggests that the DBMS is experiencing most of the I/O waits, so database tuning issues are an obvious candidate to investigate.
As you can see from the below output, the waiting time is high (57%).
You need to see what that daemon is doing...what queries are running.
The high load average is direct consequence of the I/O.
get a trace of what it's doing and what queries are taking the time.
you need a faster disk subsystem) or it might have a tuning issue.
Analyzing your tables may help (but probably not much).
I have a forum with a lot of visitors, Some days the load increase to reach 40 without increase of the number vistors.
I only ever see CPU/disk usage like that when running queries which update millions of rows.
Some starter points for diagnising database tuning issues:-
Around half of your physical memory is currently being used for I/O caching - forum software usually generates lots of quick queries returning small numbers of rows, with highly skewed hot areas of disk - so there's something definitely screwy going on if the system is spending this much time in wait.
Queuing systems (a statistical model for throughput) get hyperbolically slower as the system approaches saturation.
A system that is 90% saturated has a queue length of 10, a system that is 99% saturated has a queue length of 100.
In both screens sure looks like "mysqld" is responsible.