However, it is not the great jobs that are remembered, it is the horrendous jobs and to a smaller degree the decent jobs that are remembered.
Specific to my example, I know as a network person that I cannot set up a server as quickly as a knowledgable sysadmin and/or that there will probably be a number of things I would overlook or do incorrectly (or at least not in the best way).
This is an over simplification of a common problem in the IT industry.
But this goes both ways and includes a number of overlapping disciplines.
There also seems to be a lack of consistency, for example 3 servers preforming the same role which should be setup the same way would be setup in 3 completely different ways.
The best way to implement it is to make sure no single person CAN perform a single task alone.
Imposing a limit such as this is required in some environments for security purposes.
In the real world, we are often asked to "wear multiple hats" by management structures that still don't know all the complexities of how IT works and are dealing with the complexities of the company operation and finances they do know (and often the IT staff doesn't).
Most of the time, they fall into doing a decent job somewhere between the two.
They spend a great deal of their time trying to figure out how the blank things got the way they did, troubleshooting problems that should not be occurring, and fixing misconfigurations and problems.
As for change control, to properly implement it you have to make sure all changes to production systems are fully documented.
This often results attitudes like those asked about by the OP when two of these IT fields overlap.
Of course the commenter might have just meant they should be using SSH keys instead of passwords :)
The best way to achieve it is to have the dev perform a handout to the system administrators, giving them the code and the documentation and letting them perform the deployment.
When a network person is brought into the mix (either a consultant for a specific reason/project or because the IT staff has expanded and now includes one), they often find ignored recommended best practices, misconfigurations, security holes, etc.
I can't speak for the sysadmin community but I can from experiences.
Ideally only those with the specialized knowledge to do a task should do so.
Give me enough time and I can do at least a pretty decent job, but often the job/work does not give that time.
There is simply too much for any single person to know everything, so people specialize their knowledge.
It can provide business value by surfacing information about the applications that would not otherwise be available.
Like that attitude, as a network person, I know how easy it is to have similar thoughts about sysadmins, as often sysadmins are asked to manage the network as well.
In a relatively small number of cases they do a great job and in another relatively small number of cases they do a horrendous job.
Segregation of duties means that you never have a single person responsible for a single task.
The other thing that annoys me is they tend to mix server roles, so a Hypervisor host would suddenly also become a monitoring server and web server.
If I have the choice, easily my preference is to hand it off to a good sysadmin.
While they seem know their stuff they don't seem to have the attention to detail needed and random things get installed/changed, for example the other month I found out that one of our production web servers had KVM/QEMU installed!