Then you need an utility to send the magic packet.
I use the program ethtool on Linux to set the g flag for my NIC which tells the card to accept a so called "magic packet".
As others have said, Wake-on-LAN is not what you're looking for.
However I recently wrote a program that might help you.
You can find more information about it here: http://ignatu.co.uk/SmartPower.aspx
As others have pointed out WOL can not be used for putting the computer the sleep.
However, i am not aware whether such program currently exists.
Wake on LAN protocol cannot put your machine to sleep.
As for putting a computer to sleep you might look into.
Note that you don't install special software that allows the computer to wake-on-lan but rather enable the option in you computer's network card (NIC), given that it supports WOL.
Back Orifice, Teamviewer, and other remote administration tools
It can sleep and wake-up your PC according to configurable rules.
The magic packet needs to contain that cards MAC address and is the signal that flips the "on" switch inside the NIC making the computer starts up.
Programs that offer shutdown of remote machine usually do that through shutdown command (that does not support sleep).
(I know this is an old post, just putting the info here for other people's reference)
This is normally done either through your BIOS settings or through some software tool (maybe included in the OS).
I recommend Depicus' site and WolCenter.com as excellent sources for WOL info.
I am looking for a Wake-on-Lan utility that works locally, not via the internet (so no setting up a router for WOL) to allow for waking up AND putting to sleep a machine.
Some program might have it's own custom client (that must be installed on each machine you wish to control) that can perform sleep action.
I use Depicus' Wake On Lan Command Line tool from my Windows machine.
Regarding waking the computer up you first need to configure you computer to wake-on-lan.
I have machines that are running Windows 7 and XP Pro.