After the initial setup, all you would have to do is click Refresh All and it will pull the the data and recalculate the values.
The question is "How do I reference data in an .csv file?
Refresh is at the click of a button and you can do anything with it.
This method is also usually slower, or unusable, with large datasets.
I've got a script that outputs a number of performance metrics for a computer into a .csv.
However, I prefer to write my own code because I have absolute control and can format the results in the macro.
Excel 2010 has Data>>Get External Data - from various data sources.
I could let you know some specifics if you tell me what database the metrics are coming from.
The Excel  does a basic stats check for standard deviation, etc.
This will work, so long as you import it to a secondary Worksheet and leave your formulas and calculations on another sheet.
Is there a way to have a cell/table reference an external .csv without reimporting each time?
PS Look at the list of drivers in Data>>Get External Data>> Existing Connections>> Browse for More >> New Source >> Other Advanced >> Next which leads you to the Data Link Properties list.
Easiest way of doing it is to import the Data into Access or SQL Express, and then use the Data Connection features and functions in Excel.
When you click Refresh using this method, it's going to ask for the file name, and then re-import it using the same settings as originally used.
You then have to know what source database and what driver to use.
I realize you can import .csv files into Excel, but what I'm trying to do is read that data dynamically into my Excel model without having to re-import and re-model each time.
My way would be to cut out the .csv file and use a Macro containing VBA and ADO that receives the data and puts it directly into a worksheet in Excel.
You can email me at cliffbeacham at hotmail with more details.
You can directly import the CSV with the Data connection feature, but it is going to want to pull the data in and add it to a Worksheet.