All of my desktops work perfectly, except for one, which was recently rebuilt.
The computer 'example-config.cfg' preference item in the 'Default Domain Policy {31B2F340-016D-11D2-945F-00C04FB984F9}' Group Policy object did not apply because it failed with error code '0x80070040 The specified network name is no longer available.'
The only thing that's different about this desktop is that the hardware is different (NIC, Gfx, motherboard etc.)
For some reason, this loses the ability to be able to access the network share while it is updating its Computer group policy.
How would I go about diagnosing what the problem is here?
The strange part of this is if I RDP to the desktop, I can navigate to the network share containing the config files just fine.
If I switched my network share to a Windows box, the problem was fixed.
I noticed this because all of the GP-managed config files were missing from the desktop, and a bunch of entries existed in the EventLog similar to:
I have no idea why this is the case, but I'll make sure that all my GPO files are hosted by a Windows box in future.
There's a couple of group policy items set on these, and some of these involve copying files from a network share locally (things like config files etc.)
The gpupdate process then runs for far longer than usual, and once it's complete I can access the network share again.
Move the computer account to the right OU, wait 15 minutes, then boot again.
The network share is accessed through an IP address, rather than a DNS name (I know, I know), so I don't think this is a DNS issue.
Detach the box from the domain and reboot, rename it MACHINEA or something and reboot, then reattach it and boot again.
I have a kind of solution, but it's not a very satisfying one.
The PC connects to the network shares for part of Group Policy using the computer's account.
I've got a bunch of desktops that are members of a domain.
About 90% of the time that sorts out GP issues at the Computer level.
The network share was being hosted by a Solaris 11 box, running the SMB daemon.
However, if I open a cmd prompt and hit gpupdate /force, I'm suddenly not able to access the network share.