The inverter can now receive enough current to overheat and ignite, since the higher rated adapter will not treat the increased draw as a fault.
But since we had no other option, we tried, it worked.
I often hear analogies based on water for current, so one you could use here is an imaginary house's super-simplified plumbing system.
TL;DR: The cost of the right charger will almost always will be less than any amount of damage the wrong one can cost.
I used to occasionally use a Dell charger with some of my HP laptops (even though the differences in voltages and current ratings are within at most 10%, the HP laptops would run, but not charge with my Dell chargers, and some of the Dell models wouldn't even run on an HP charger).
My example is two HP-branded power supplies specified for an HP laptop (4540S).
Voltage tolerances are around 10%, so .5V shouldn't make any difference.
Using an adapter that's rated too high removes one of the assumptions that the system is built around.
Also note the problems that can stem from wrongly rated chargers don't have to happen over a long period of using the wrong charger.
As soon as the wrong charger is plugged in, the device might end up with a lot more damage than it should if anything that was even in part dependent on the correct adapter being able to recognize over-current conditions and cut off power goes wrong, or the charger providing a certain voltage on exact pins.
Even though the components inside the adapter would probably take a few seconds to fail, and a small object causing a short would probably start to heat up, and maybe even melt, the adapter immediately stops providing power (before any of those things can happen).
One of my friends did this on my laptop (Dell Studio 1555).
This goes to the "Rely on mfr spec" side, while also keeping open the question about raw electrical specs.
These components are designed and tested to achieve certain lifetimes on average, but those figures are all based on operating at nominal voltages (Going out of the ranges of both the nominal voltages and the tolerance, will almost certainly harm the component's lifetime).
Using the wrong charger cancels out the margin for error on the laptop's side, but the charger can still be off by the same amount.
These devices are designed with safety measures to prevent dangerous conditions that could result in electric shocks and overheating.
For example, the device should have an internal fuse that would blow before too much damage would occur.
But because of the nature of the some the circuitry, and the voltage transformation circuitry that goes with them, which can require certification from safety organizations such as UL and take up large amounts of space, parts of both are relocated to the "brick" in an adapter (this also allows manufacturers to get per-certified bricks).
While it's not as consistently dangerous as using a lower rated adapter it's still taking a risk.
Any higher than that, and the circuitry in the adapter should stop the flow of power immediately.
In fact, even if the device doesn't use those identification schemes, it's quite likely it will recognize the difference in voltage, and may not charge as a result (only draw power to run).
You might have seen this before if you've ever shorted a laptop adapter.
But that design is also relying on the fact that even if somehow the inverter is shorted straight to the power source, the most current it should ever see is around 4.26A.
There's very rarely a good reason to do risk these kinds of things.
But placing extra stress on components adds up over time, and not going up in smoke the moment you plug it in doesn't mean everything is O.K.
While in this question the differences in ratings might be within the tolerances the device was designed for, it's definitely not something to rely on.
Because your laptop would have pulled in more current from the adapter, thereby destroying the adapter, and consequently letting high current into your laptop)
Although I'd expect that laptop chargers of the same unique size would have the same configurations, different manufacturers are free to use different connections with identical parts, and they often do because of special identification protocols used to identify approved chargers.
The HP site specifies a 90W adapter that delivers 19v for discrete configurations, or a 65W adapter that delivers 18.5v for configurations with integrated graphics.
This is a really old question, but since this question is on the first page of results for a search with the terms "hp", "charger", and "dell", I felt it should be noted there is definitely a risk  in using a higher current power supply.
It just means the design and components are a little forgiving ... or something small is already broken and sooner or later it's going to cause a domino effect leading to a catastrophic failure of the entire system, or even cause sporadic issues that that are are practically impossible track down, but end up making the device unusable because of problems with reliability (that last problem is very common).
The problem with using a higher current adapter is it's like removing parts of those safety features.
(Note : The other risk involved in scenarios like this is the polarity)
I've simplified these examples to help get the idea across.
It's a very common misconception that as long as the adapter being used is providing more current than the device's rated current draw, it's is O.K.
In reality there are more systems capable of failing in over-current between those two points, but those systems are also designed around these assumptions, and they too are subject to failing dramatically if they're provided even more current than they were designed to deal with in over-current conditions.
Additionally, while .5v might not sound like much, if the laptop was designed with a tolerance of .5v, it's because the chargers are expected to provide the right voltage, give or take .5v.
Taking advantage of those tolerances for longer than they were designed for will cause them to fail, resulting in the same situation.
The laptop was (hopefully) designed so that even if the maximum amount of available current is passed to the inverter, it can't (or at least shouldn't) overheat to unsafe levels.
Even if the difference doesn't result in going over that tolerance, it can strain the components in the charger.
It's always okay to use a power supply that can supply more current than your laptop needs.
And on the subject of voltage, going based solely on the numbers mentioned see isn't a good idea, since different pin configurations exist.
Imagine a part such as the laptop's backlight inverter is short circuited.
Often times those tolerances are for peak values, that aren't expected to exist for more than a few milliseconds at a time (for example, the time it takes for the correct adapter to respond an increase in current draw).
In this answer the pin configuration was not mentioned, and the replacement charger could have caused serious damage.
Having said all that, I'm not claiming these circuits aren't rugged.
Since the current rating is higher for HP adapter, there is no risk.
The plumbing would be designed to operate with water coming into the house at a certain pressure, then given a little more pressure with a pump (Disclaimer: I'm not a plumber, and this hypothetical plumbing is pretty wonky, so please don't build a house using this description...):
But after fixing the 3rd non-mechanical "mysterious power jack problem", I decided to buy some cheap replacements that were properly rated and haven't had any more issues past the usual mechanical ones.
HP also offers another adapter for the same laptop model, rated at 65W and 19.5V, with no configuration specification - only the laptop model.