If you have the old kernel package, you can install it by using pacman -U package-name.pgk.tar.gz.
If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
If you haven't cleaned the older kernels yet, they should still be available in the grub menu.
If you have cleared your package cache, it can be really hard to find the binary package you need.
After that you should be able to reboot your system and the new (actually the old) kernel will be loaded.
You will most likely get a dependency error after that.
If pacman tells you, that it can't remove a package, that is incompatible with the old kernel, you will have to remove it manually (pacman -Rd conflicting-package.pkg.tar.gz), before installing the old kernel.
You will have to repeat this steps, until the pacman run succeeds.
If you don't have it, you're pretty much out of luck (if you don't want to compile the old packages yourself).
In my case, I have to downgrade 7 packages, including the kernel, glibc, kernel-headers, lirc and two packages of my nvidia driver.
Every package, that is listed in this error has to be downgraded, too.
If you are using grub 2, this would be the way to check what the default option is.
Run the update-grub script, reboot and you're fine to go.
Prerequisite: You actually have to find the binary package of the old kernel anywhere.
But be careful with this step, it can break your system.
I know that I've done it once (probably two years ago) and it worked alight (as far as I can remember).
So move back to the package cache, find the named package in an older version and try to install it, by calling pacman again, this time with the old kernel and the newly found package (pacman -U package-name.pgk.tar.gz other-package.pkg.tar.gz).
I usually stick to the possibility to search the pacman package cache (/var/cache/pacman/pkg).
Because Archlinux is pretty much a cutting edge distro with very current packages and frequent releases, I need the downgrading feature very often.
I had this problem as well, when I installed the new kernel, my driver failed to work as well.
I've never succeeded in finding the package I needed on one of the mirror servers.
I also always have a recent backup of this directory, so no packages get lost, if I clear the cache.
Do the same steps, but grub_default is just plain "default" in this file.
This should cover how to downgrade a package with Pacman.
You can change the grub_default value very easily, 0 would indicate the first option, 2 should be a previously used kernel.
In think, the only big flaw in Archlinux is actually the problem of downgrading.
In my experience, it is safe to downgrade the kernel.
I really hope, the guys of Archlinux find a way to make this a little bit easier some time in the future.
My Hauppauge PVR-250 remote just doesn't work any more, after installing a recent kernel version.
I had to do it a lot lately, because of a problem with lirc and new kernel versions.
There are a few possibilities listed in the wiki link, posted in one of the other answers.
A simple fix is to put the default option on the grub menu to the right kernel.
Questions this specific to Arch are probably better asked on the Arch Linux message board or looked up in their wiki, since they are Arch specific and that's where you'll find the Arch Linux experts.