P.S My friend's USB broke when I threw it at the fan :P
I was just exploring this in my science class the other day (my friend and I had finished early so we had a good 15 minutes or so to muck around with what the teacher called super magnets) and I can safely say that it depends what you do with the magnet, the strength of said magnet, and on the USB stick itself.
My friend's USB was renered completely and utterly useless after this experience, while mine (which was put in pretty much the same kind of conditions) was perfectly fine, even after I threw it at the fan a few times (don't ask haha).
It even manages to stick to the fridge, supported by nothing but it's magnetic powers.
By the way, my USB is a $10 Kodak 8 GB which I bought from target, but my friend's was a $20 USB from a very reputable computer shop.
For reference, according to Wikipedia, an MRI scanner can generate magnetic fields ranging from 600 to 70000 gauss, depending on the model and operating mode, while a typical refrigerator magnet generates about 50 gauss.
Note that MRI scanners generate changing magnetic fields which can easily damage most electronic equipment.
Also, you can use a Faraday cage to protect devices against electromagnetic induction.
No, because flash memory devices do not use magnetism to store data the way hard drives do.
If you simply leave the magnet sitting on top of the usb, they will be attracted but the USB won't be wiped.
If, however, you swipe the magnet over the USB many times in rapid succession, then you may wipe it, and depending on the speed and strength of the magnet you could also render the USB unformattable.
However, unless you're moving a strong magnet at high speeds (such as by rapidly rotating it), normal, everyday magnetic objects will not damage an SSD or other flash memory device.
I know it is possible to wipe a hard disk, but I'm wondering if something similar can be done to SSD disks as well?
This is due to electromagnetic induction producing electrical currents inside the circuitry that are strong enough to damage the hardware.
However, as sblair noted, sufficiently strong, changing magnetic fields can damage any electronic equipment, including flash memory devices.
For example, SanDisk SD cards are rated to withstand static (not changing) magnetic fields of up to 5000 gauss.