or do they have to log in to a VPN on their side giving the illusion that they are on my home network in order to access it?
Are we talking about the end user VPN'ing into my network?
Once connected, the NAS will be accessible through its private (or LAN) ip address.
Even though this avoids to expose the NAS to the outer world, the VPN (if not properly set) will expose not only the NAS but all of your local network to the people connecting to it.
Apart from this aspect, you need to consider that the VPN can be estabilished either from the user's pc or can be a stable VPN connection estabilished at router level.
Without hardening, setting up access to the NAS doesn't only endanger the NAS and its data but also the entire network.
In the first scenario, you can setup in Windows/Ubuntu/OSX a VPN account (for instance a PPTP) such that the user decides when to connect to the VPN.
yes the end users have to VPN into your local network.
You might want to set up VPN rules to restrict remote users to the devices in question.
In the second scenario, you would need to set up a proper router to estabilish a VPN connection with a remote party.
1) What is the "best practice" way to allow these 2 people to connect to the NAS?
I have 2 people that would like to assess the NAS (One is at a local university, the other is on the other side of the country).
and could you be so kind to point me to a guide to enact such a setup?
This solution, even though is a transparent approach, will expose the VPN connection to all of the users connected to that router.
I recently purchased a Synology NAS DS918+ and have a few beginner questions to ask.
VPN allows remote access without exposing your network devices to hacking from the Internet.
2) Provide transparent access through a VPN tunnel.
Update: I was given this information on the 'networkengineering' stackexchange.
The reason I'm asking is the 2 end user have 0 technical experience so I want to make the process as simple and foolproof for them - given this info which of the 2 options would you recommend?
1) Given the NAS is hardenend and isn't affected by hacking, you could map/open the required port/s on the firewall.
I'm not sure if this is the correct place to ask this question but here goes.
If you are managing good network devices and you put in place a proper configuration, you can avoid this to happen and decide to expose the VPN connection only to a set of selected users.