Tried the system image back up once more and it worked.
I recently purchased a ASUS laptop and swapped out the original HD with an SDD.
You could also reformat the entire drive...But this solution lets you keep your files on the other partitions.
I've successfully created a system image backup on a different external hard drive, but with this external hard drive, made from the original ASUS hard drive and an external enclosure, it simply won't work.
I don't know if leaving those partitions there contribute to the problem.
In my case all data must be deleted off new hard drive (secondary wd 7200rpm) before system image back up.
I would go to system and security -> File History -> System Image Backup.
Have you gone to D: and deleted the folder WindowsImageBackup?
I used "MiniTool Partition Wizard" (free), but there are other options as well.
How it got there, I'm not sure, but Windows would not let me remove it.
From Disk Management, I saw a 260MB "EFI System Parition".
I would go through all the steps and the OS would try to create a system image.
In any case, when I plug this external hard drive into my laptop, it shows up and detects as local disk (D:).
And then when it gets to "backing up EFI system partition," it would stop and give me this error message: "There was a failure in preparing th ebackup image of one of the volumes in the backup set (0x807800C5).
I am having the exact same issue, creating an image from an SSD, but with Windows 10.
Used paragon hard disk manager to delete and create secondary hard drive partition and formatted it completely.
When I -do- delete D:/WindowsImageBackup, the error I get instead of "The mounted backup volume is inaccessible.
I fixed it managing to delete all the partitions from the previous hdd using "diskpart" from the command prompt.
Any ideas or suggestions to make this system image backup work on the external hard drive?
I'd like to avoid deleting all the partitions on the external disc because in case for some reason I need to return the laptop for manufacturer warranty repair, I'd like to have the recovery partition available.
I then took the original HD and placed it into a USB external hard drive enclosure with intent to use it as a backup hard drive.
I solved my problem using paragon hard disk manager.
Next, I tried to create a system image back up of my current system.
So as far as I am concerned, this external hard drive works.
I just fixed this 0x80780081 issue on my Windows 8.1 machine by deleting the EFI partition from the external drive that I was trying to backup to.
I was successful in removing the EFI partition by using third party software.
Now the hard drive still has the original "hidden" partitions intact.
Now primary ssd and secondary 7200rpm wd which is relocated in my laptop cdrom bay.