When I click on the "Connect" drop down, I select "Database Engine" which pops "Connect to Server" dialog box which has the following in "Login" tab: (I've made no changes to "Connection Properties" or "Additional Connection Parameters" tabs.)
All the "helps" on the Internet - including MS - state to Start SQL Server Management Studio, and right-click on the database in Object Explorer.
Therefore, I've not attempted any understanding of the ports.
Login; however, no named pipes (don't have the exact wording)
Login: (Tried each of the following): .\sqlacct | PC Name\sqlacct | sqlacct
From your description, it sounds like SQL Server is indeed running on the machine - if it wasn't, you would be receiving a different error message that says that SQL Server is not available.
Once you've logged in, you can add additional Windows accounts, including your own.
Try this: Connect to SQL Server using SQL authentication, using username sa and the password you specified during installation.
Therefore, I feel I've gotten bogged down in SA activities that would be done by others in the real world.
If you do not select any Windows accounts on that screen, no Windows accounts will have access by default.
This is the second install over last 4 days; and both time I hit the same wall.
Authentication: SQL Server Auth (I've tried Windows Auth, also)
I've verified protocols for ShrMem, NmdPipes & TCP/IP are ENABLED.
Under SQL Server Config Manager, SQL Server services in the right pane I click on SQL Server (MSSQLSERVER); I click and it pops up SQL Server (MSSQLSERVER) property box.
(You can confirm that by looking up the "State" code listed in the error 18456 message in the log.
(The service account cannot login to SQL Server unless you explicitly grant it access.)
Since SQL Server 2012 is installed on SAME PC as the one that I'm developing through then my understanding is no ports are utilized.
When you install SQL Server in mixed mode, you can set an administrator password; the username for that account is sa.
Trying to install SQL Server 2012 (Eval) to work with the new BI tools using AdventureWorksDW tutorial.
The message shown to the user is always "State: 1" for security reasons.)
You can also specify Windows accounts to have administrator access.
The first install I used Windows Auth; and then found a blog - SQL Coffee - that said to set up SQL Auth and check Mixed Mode bubble - which I did.
I think the problem is in the account you're using to login.