If that is successful, start enabling a group of services and startup programs at a time and keep hibernating.
... to set hibernation file size to 100% of your RAM (50% is a minimum, according to context help).
This is like the Security Center popup crap you get all the time.
This solved my issue immediately, without reinstalling anything (even without reboot).
If it does not say ACPI Based PC, you do not have ACPI enabled in the BIOS.
I think in my case the issue may have been originally caused by my cloning an OS between drives and or using EasyBCD to modify the BCD.
Select "Selective startup and uncheck Load "startup items."
I'd check that first by firing up the Event Viewer.
Also Windows logs the time it takes for each device driver to wake up and to go to sleep and will flag anything abnormal at the top of the window.
Go under Control Panel/Performance Tools/Advanced Tools.
Then I discovered that my hibernation file size was incorrect.
Everytime a system starts, shuts off, logs off and hibernates, an entry is recorded in the System Log.
I think you will also need to reinstall Windows if you want to enable it.
This command also activates hibernation feature if necessary.
Windows 7 comes with tools to check your device drivers, yet we still do things the old fashion way.
This will disable all non essential startup services.
If that STILL doesn't help, we can at least eliminate the Device drivers.
You can narrow them down by first eliminating all startup programs.
If even a bare essentials bootup won't hibernate, we can safely say it is a hardware issue.
My issue was similar to this but slightly different; when I hibernate my computer it simply locks the screen (as if I'd pressed Win+L).
It is important you do it this way and NOT safe mode.
Weirdly, I solved this issue by giving my system boot partition (the small ~100mb partition that Windows 7 creates during install) a drive letter!
Check the box "Hide Microsoft Services" then hit Disable all.
I've not seen this happen since the XP days, so this may not be relevant any more, but look in Device Manager and look under Computer, at the top.
Try that (from http://social.technet.microsoft.com/forums/en-US/itprovistasp/thread/4d74523f-2b9e-4fe7-9b5e-f0153166adcc/):
Normally you wouldn't need to have the boot partition exposed as a drive letter for hibernate to work.
Now we look for running proccesses that don't want to go to sleep.
If none of those help, click the Generate System Diagnostic Reports.
I'm surprised everyone has offered solutions but no one has bothered to check the Event Log and the Performance Monitor.