There is often little “bloatware” on commercial systems.
For high end business laptops and Desktops you are generally paying a huge premium for third part software certification - high end CAD\CAM\3D modelling software.
It is after all your money and if they're not forthcoming with answers you don't need to give it to them, do you?
Another good test might be to see if they are prepared to loan you a machine on eval.
Video cards designed for applications like AutoCAD and SolidCAD are often available and that is usually not the case with "home/consumer" devices.
The construction is often much better with stronger/lighter materials used in the frame and case.
I would pin down the supplier and try to extract from them exactly what else you are getting for your money.
Hard drives are sometimes faster 7200RPM drives while many consumer devices could be 4200 RPM or 5400RPM.
To be honest I'm quite surprised to learn that there are now business class netbooks, but then again maybe I've just been out of the end-user hardware arena for too long.
This is of almost no benefit in consumer environments but it (should) be an important factor in a large business environment and like everything else the chip\chipset vendors like to get a nice fee for enabling these features.
Often this type warranty added to an entry level system will bring it close to a business class system.
Is it a 30 day thing, or a 3 year, on site, no fault warranty?
I guess the bottom line is that you can determine if any of these are value for you.
Business class systems often have much longer warranty (as noted) and the warranty often includes next day, on site service.
One final point is that most business class desktops and laptops now include some level of hardware remote management capability (Intel's AMT, AMD's ASF) that can provide out of band management capability with the right support infrastructure.
There are also things like Trusted Platform Module that may be on a Business class system that is not on the consumer system
When you are spending $100-$200k per workstation for software licenses you are paying to make sure that you have someone to sort your problem out if it doesn't work.
To take your DSL example, "business class" DSL would (or at least should) have better contention ratios, a better SLA (including more pro-active response) and potentially penalty clauses should the provider not be able to supply the amount of uptime they quote you.
The screen often is brighter and may support higher resolutions.
These tend to be specific "workstation" class systems, such as the Dell Precision line and not your general purpose business laptop.
Some business laptops are moisture resistant and have better drop resistance than consumer devices (Lenovo for one).
All of these lower the TCO of the hardware at increased up-front costs.
If your vendor is not providing any of the above for their "business" class hardware, then all they are doing is extracting more money from you.
As for the DSL thing, usually a 'business' connection carries a totally different SLA than a home connection would.
The business warranty also may allow access to better trained techs if you call for support.
That would make sense because Netbooks are fragile, and business users are anything but careful with equipment that doesn't belong to them.
Without any other details, in general "business" models offer the following advantages:
In general you'd expect "business class" goods and services to have a somewhat higher overall quality in a number of areas.
Others have made the point already but if the person you are talking to can't articulate these points effectively then move on and find someone who can.
The main reasons for the price differential are those outlined by DLux & DaveM - much longer support lifetime, longer platform refresh, more rugged components.
As far as power supplies are concerned this is not totally outrageous.
Some things like longer refreshes may not even be important to you if you do not use standardized images.
Part of the long term management of costs for client systems includes reuse of peripherals - continuity of power supply and docking station design across generations means that you don't have to buy all the accessories when you refresh systems, you just get a replacement box.