You could also try using WinDbg from the Debugging Tools for Windows.
In view of the effort you have already invested in this project, I would advice to reformat the hard disk and reinstall XP, then reinstall all the products one-by-one, rebooting to check whether the problem has returned.
It just doesn't work, if I just double click on the app.
Your answer may have been in the first paragraph - remove Detours.
Applications that I've built that uses .NET v2 Framework system event logs say:
Applications that I've built that uses .NET v4 Framework system event logs say:
Detours: http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/detours/
(That link is for driver developers, but I've used WinDbg for .NET programs.)
Since you say that the problem doesn't happen in safe mode, it's clear that this is caused by an installed application, add-on or driver.
Here's more details on my blog - including everything that I've tried so far and more details and narratives.
Several weeks ago, my company laptop started having some strange problems.
Comparing the output may provide more information about when the program is being modified.
System event log entries for running third-party apps:
Alternatively, you may uninstall products using Revo Uninstaller, but even Revo can miss a particularly sneaky installation.
When launching MS Developer Web Server from withing Visual Studio, the Message box pop-up says:
Go to Add/Remove programs, find Detours, and remove it.
I have also figured out that when I boot into Safe Mode, then everything works.
How can I figure out which process is causing the problem and then fix the computer?
I later figured out that I couldn't execute any .NET application.
There's lots of system event messages and Dr. Watson type errors.
As far as restore points go, my oldest restore point is a few weeks ago, at which I still had this problem, so I don't think restoring that point will help much.
In speaking with Microsoft CLR specialist after reviewing my dmp files, he said
Also, I've figured out that if I right click on an .NET executable, and choose "Run As" and enter my currently logged in user's credentials, then the application works.
To get the most debugging output, you'll need the Windows Symbol Package for XP as well.
I could no longer launch the Microsoft Developer Web Server (via Visual Studio->Debug).
Frankly, executable files being modified when launched have the smell of a viral infection, which is why I exceptionally recommend reformatting in this case.