my iPhone keeps me at least near the borders of sanity) If I do something once, I figure I will want that list again later.
You can make smart lists based on words in your notes.
The only time tracks are randomized, are at the initial selection and addition to the Now Playing list.
Then modify your smart list to add the condition "or notes contains 'christmas' (Hold option down when clicking + to make nested rules.
So, for example, if Bach's "Jesu, Joy of Man's desire" is both classical and christmas, you can leave it's genre as classical, but add the word Christmas to the notes.
I've made a playlist called "Listening" I add whatever I'm going to listen to, and then click the Randomize button next to the playlist title.
This will add all of the songs randomly to "up next".
A song can be on multiple lists without taking up extra space.
But they are never re-randomized and the tracks in "Play Next" also cannot be randomized.
It instead makes another playlist called "Play Next" and gives it a higher priority than the Now Playing list.
3 * will usually put it on one of my lists based on genre.
I use this a lot, and have many lists like "Christmas 3 star"  where 'genre = christmas, and rating greater than **.
(I'm a tree farmer = endless hours of transplanting and weeding.
Bridge over troubled water would be on both lists, but stored only once.
The computer version has extensive controls in smart playlists, and they update live.
So we expect the app to play whatever we add to that list in random order.
So for example, I have a Simon & Garfunkle 3* list, and I have a Folk 4 * list.
Traditionally, when you tell the program (Windows Media Player, Winamp, iTunes pre-11) to play an artist, it makes a "Now Playing" playlist and plays it.
I tend to have long playlists, on the basis that I want to leave my phone in my pocket while working.
So, like timshutes said, the answer is to adapt to the queuing methods.
I think it's best to think of "Next Up" as more informative, and use Playlists for managing your music.
iTunes 11, on the other hand, does not add the tracks to that playlist.
This isn't an answer to your specific problem -- it's another way to approach itunes that may be of help.
In addition, there are rafts of itunes applescripts for manipulating your library, moving meta data, redoing artists to standard formats, etc.
At the end of a cycle of this I can go through and give some of them ratings.
The problem is in how certain people have become accustomed to using music players, myself included.
A list called "On trial"  where rating = no stars, and play count < 6, limit to 50 songs.