I would like to have a warning system that alerts me when there's a cat present so that I may go chase it off using my super soaker.
As a bonus, you get the position of the cat as well, so that you may think of incorporating some "automatic" response as a future step to your project.
My question is with regards to the feasibility of the project.
The approach would consist of segmenting your image in smaller "blocks", and going through them one-by-one using a supervised learning algorithm and try to classify each block according to whether it contains a cat or not.
Now, of course how easy it is to build an accurate cat detector is another topic..
You could simplify your problem significantly by using a motion/change detection approach.
I would consider a more viable approach to be what has been discussed at the end of that course where a Photo OCR workflow was demonstrated.
Therefore you don;t have to spend your time collecting photos from your camera, and you avoid the risk of having a very small (comparable) sample of positives (i.e.
You could then extract the rectangular region of change and use that as the basis for your classification or anomaly detection.
I have setup a raspberry pi with camera module that can capture video and/or pictures of a part of the garden.
I have taken and completed the Coursera MOOC on the topic.
This is an interesting and also quite ambitious project :)
Taking this type of approach can significantly simplify your classifier and reduce your false target rate because you can ignore anything that is not roughly the size of a cat (e.g., a person or bird).
Neighboring cats are from time to time visiting my garden, which I dislike since they tend to defecate on my lawn.
My first idea was to train a classifier to identify cat or cat-like objects, but after realizing that I will be unable to obtain a large enough number of positive samples, I have abandoned that in favor of anomaly detection.
For simplicity's sake, say that I only care about a cat with black and white coloring.
For example, you could compare each image/frame with one from an early time (e.g., a minute earlier), then only consider pixels that have changed since the earlier time.
I am not sure anomaly detection (at least in the sense described in the course you followed) would be a very fitting algorithm in this case.
You would then use the extracted change regions that were not filtered out to form the training set for your classifier (or anomaly detector).
The benefit here is that you will not have to train your algorithm using a dataset specific to your garden (which, as you mention is difficult to create), but you can use images of cats taken off the net (e.g.
perhaps you can search for "cat on grass" or something), and perhaps patches of photos from your (or other) gardens.
I have a hobby project which I am contemplating committing to as a way of increasing my so far limited experience of machine learning.
Just be sure to get your false target rate sufficiently low before mounting a laser turret to your feline intrusion detection system.
I estimate that if I captured a photo every second of the day, I would end up with maybe five photos containing cats (out of about 60,000 with sunlight) per day.
My ideas so far would be to simply count the number of pixels with that has certain colors; do some kind of blob detection/image segmenting (which I do not know how do to, and would thus like to avoid) and perform the same color analysis on them.