However it is a personal thing and everyone varies on how much detail they put in.
A good paper on this is Requirements Engineering and the Creative Process in the Video Game Industry.
When using a Wiki there are a few guidelines that can help with:
I come from a different stream of life (TV Production), but it's basically the same.
The size and scale of the project documentation completely depends on the size of team and the scope of the project.
Too little detail and there's too much ambiguity, creating uneven results, too much detail and you limit possible creativity from your team.
I like to have headings related to what Art, Sound and Storyline I'll need going forward as well as a basic coding design I can follow when I am coding the engine.
Either a series of smaller targeted docs or a wiki.
How do you turn the game design from this nebulous idea to something that can be created and executed?
But, to put it more simply - you need what you need and nothing more.
Having just begun studying design documents, I've come to the conclusion that no-one really knows what goes in them.
Mine are fairly short since I like to jump straight into the code rather than dwelling on design.
You should not require yourself to add information that you think you need just because some template has it.
Each list contains layout sheets (or character layouts for characters - front, side, 3/4), notes, mechanics notes for animation, etc.
Personally I prefer the wiki approach as allows readers to quickly jump between related topics which maps well to system designs which are often integrated.
It's not easy, and the science of game design documents is woefully under-explored in comparison to other software domains.
It should contain everything you need to start work on the game.
Typically large games aren't built off monolithic design documents, but a distributed document system.
In short, whatever works for you and size/scope of your team.
The design document itself should be what you need to progress from pre-production to production.