- malware putting hidden .INF files also over network shares
Check your server's SYSTEM event log for hard drive/controller errors.
Try creating a new folder; copy all the files there and see if the same thing happens with the new folder.
If it doesn't, I'm willing to bet it's something in Windows Explorer that's trying to do too much work.
You could try defragmenting the drive that contains the folder in question.
An experiment to try is to attach a spare external USB 2.0 drive and share some files from it.
Small utilities I've downloaded from time to time have done some very peculiar things.
If it does, one of the files may be unusually structured, internally - or even partially or completely corrupt.
Check your server's SECURITY event log for any logon failures.
I put url references for the hardset and less known items, for the other items you can google.
I moved from an 80GB ATA-100 drive to a 500GB ATA-100 drive on the same IDE bus and saw 5x transfer and performance improvements.
Maybe something will strike you, like multiple authentications or something.
I've seen a bunch of computers (especially older ones that run XP) that try other, older protocols first and that causes much pain indeed.
Also our goals are to prefer semplicity and clients' speed over complex and almost useless features, so this is a piece of our .REG file :
If the icon data is corrupt it could maybe cause what you're seeing.
You could try turning on the Show Hidden Files option.
If you're wondering how the contents of a file has any effect on a directory listing, consider that Windows has to parse each file to extract at least its icon.
If it does, I would tend to guess it would have something to do with something going on lower in the stack, like with authentication or a network problem of some sort.
Also cut down on the columns you display in Explorer for those folders, because often clients try to read the metadata of all of the files to show information (like image size or video runtime) in a column.
Then the trouble is finding out which file is the culprit.
Check to make sure that you're only on the "Classic" folder view on the client, and that the client isn't trying to to something silly like make thumbnail images of all of your image files/videos that you might have.
Is your network stack configured only to use TCP/IP, or is there some other lower level transport that's being tried before TCP/IP?
Does this happen when you map a network drive and access it by using "dir" in a console?
If the files being accessed are on a slower drive (IDE vs SATA).
If you really want to go deep, put Wireshark on one of the clients and see what you can see.
This behaviour could possibly be caused by lots of hidden files (and might also explain the inability to completely remove the read-only attribute).