You also can't really detect if they've put pinhole cameras or microphones around the place,
Could someone log in and basically watch me work and if so, would there be any goodies left behind for me to find out if this has happened other than visual signs which would not be present...maybe some running processes?
Obviously I'm not going to raise any suspicion by  me asking our network admin.
That said, if it's your own IT manager who's doing it, it's a possibility.
This also goes both ways, if you distrust them that much, you'll find they'll start
Beyond that, if they've tampered with their computer that you're using, I'm not
For preventing them sniffing elsewhere on the network you can run a web proxy on
1) In system logs some identification that would tell me that someone might log into my PC such as an Admin
or are listening through laser mics or watching you through telescopes.
Because of the place I work has some real issues (people) especially in IT and the owner, I wonder if we are being sniffed.
Whether or not it is legal for your employer to do this to you though is another matter, and it varies GREATLY depending on where you live (UK, USA, Australia, etc)
an external machine you do trust that lets you connect over SSL.
At some point you just have to trust your employer and, if you don't, find one
If you are visiting a website that uses SSL or TLS encryption, then the content of your messages is probably safe.
If someone has attached a hub and is using a promiscuous sniffer, you can't tell.
browse non SSL sites without anyone on the LAN being able to sniff it.
is there a good way to basically monitor for this as an end user?
I've had other employers (briefly) where if you accessed anything that wasn't
Is there any way to tell if on a Vista 64-bit machine:
This is the reality of being on a corporate network.
2) Something in the logs that would give me a flag about maybe I'm being monitored some other way?
Nothing you do on your local area network is private.
3) How can I be sure that my gmail, hotmail, and chat is not being sniffed.
I'm talking about specific hidden system signs either in registry or logs.
If I were in that situation and I could get away with it, I would do my work from an operating system running off of a CD which I brought with me.
If someone is sniffing traffic at the router, you can't tell.
I've had employers who knew that I would occasionally have a rant
directly, provably, work related, it'd be a serious disciplinary matter.
They can replace the SSL certificates and read even what appears to be secure web connections if they like.
I don't know anything about windows, so can't answer that part of the question.
If the company owns the computer, they have the legal right to read every character you type (not that I agree with that, it's just a fact).
You can't detect network sniffing because it happens outside of your machine.
The fact of the matter is that all this monitoring happens outside the realm of your local machine, which means that it's undetectable.
They will know WHERE the content is heading, but not what is in it.
This can be compromised by something called  'man-in-the-middle' attack, but that requires intimate knowledge of the network.