To get DOW use the formula below, where column B contains the date.
You can add a couple of fields to your data and then generate a pivot table to get the counts.
Next, add a field to represent the 5-minute period the timestamp falls in, Time Range.
I'd do the rounding by creating a new column of the date (=Day(A1)) and a second column of the timestamp.
The image shows how the above formula is entered in cell B1 and has conditions to check that time is in range 12:00 AM to 12:10 AM and day is set to Sunday or 1.
You should be able round each record to the nearest five minutes.
I didn't have enough data so the example looks pretty empty.
The functions make sure only non blank data are collected.
Note: This sample looks a little funky because I used sparse data (20 records over a week) to generate the pivot table.
Then use excel's subtotal function to get the counts.
Similar to what @Excellll recommended, you could add an additional column specifying the day of the week, i.e in sheet 1, where your raw data is present and columns A and B hold date and time respectively, you could use this function in column C
Like the image you shared, I customized formulae for Sheet 2 to generate a similar structure.
As you might've noticed the time difference here is 10 minutes, I've made it customizable, so you can set it to 5 minutes or 2 hours based on your requirement.
Set up your pivot table with DOW as column labels and Time Range as row labels.
Once you've added these columns to your data, create a pivot table that uses all your data as its data source.
Since we are using functions here, it doesn't matter here if your data has 4 empty rows or 10 empty rows in between.
Use the formula below to calculate this, where the timestamp is in column A.
The approach that I'm using is purely based on functions.
The following condition checks that timestamps exist in a particular range as declared in the first column of the table and additionally that it is a given day of the week.
It should look more like what you have in mind with your large data set.