I'll just add one thing which wasn't said here: motion blur
That make any sense of speed to be almost non-existent right up to the moment when you arrive at the star/planet/moon/.
To add on to Phil's suggestion about sound, take multiple approaches to it.
Try the "pilot pushed back in his seat due to accelleration" look.
They have a big problem in that everything is to scale.
My 2 cents, some of it has already been said but I'd like to make my answer coherent as I believe many of these points together would create a nice effect but just alone they don't do much to create the immersion:
They denote speed by making the ship look like its flying through a thin dust cloud.
pulling the camera a bit away from the cockpit when the boost is triggered.
This isn't directly related to perceived speed of the player, but will help increase the emotional intensity, which is what you're after at the end of the day.
When this happens, play back a "whipping by"/Doppler effect sort of sound.
You would combine multiple visual effects to achieve the sensation of speed, so do the same with sound.
I kind of assume that you're talking about a 3rd person view here of the spaceship because of how you described your idea.
If your collision is split into broad and narrow phase, raise an event when another object gets checked in narrow phase but doesn't actually hit.
Also kick your music up a notch, fade in a supplemental rhythm track (layered on top of your main music track).
Have a slight increase in volume to your thrusting sound, or crossfade to one that is more intense and "whooshy".
They have the best implementation of environmental speed lines I've seen.
As the particles stream by the leave slight speed lines.
You can vary it by shifting the pitch variance range upward as the difference between the velocity of the player and the velocity of the object increases.
It might even be useful in a 3rd person setting too as you often need a bigger FOV when your speeds are higher (Like the camera in the top down GTA games).
When the ship is at rest the cloud is completely transparent.