And when you connect your laptop directly to the modem, it is unprotected and additional malware connections are made to/from it which uses up most of the bandwidth, leaving only a little for your test.
It may not be necessary for trouble, but I can only hope the handshake fails, because many of these connections are, I believe, zero day exploits to unpatched systems.
This means that a long latency in the connection will lead to a much lower throughput than the link is capable of because only a small amount of unacknowledged data can be in flight at any one time, and acknowledgements are limited by latency.
When you insert the router in there, the router can use a much larger TCP window scale option going to the remote end of the connection.
This really sounds like a TCP window scale option problem (often conflated with MTU and MSS).
So you get high throughput from remote to router because of the large window size, and high throughput from the router to the laptop due to the lower latency between them.
Does the router have a configuration that includes a username/password or keypair information?
Now, if your modem is a pure modem (or a router in bridge mode), you can try spoofing the MAC address of your router as that may be what your ISP is looking at.
Your machine may be performing connection handshakes with, or otherwise consumed with processing, this incoming traffic.
In my setup, the router is placed in bridged mode, and my firewall is attached behind.
I see a relatively constant incoming stream of traffic to the firewall, all dropped.
Your laptop is asking the other end of the connection to only send it a small amount of data between acknowledgements.
Your computer may be "unaccustomed" to the constant attempted connections, all valid to a normally isolated machine.
If so, the ISP may have client software for the PC, or a Web Page for entering this data.
Depending on the age and OS and OS version of your laptop, you might be able to adjust the window scale option on it.
Also, it might be that your laptop is infected with some malware, and that firewall in router is dropping connections to/from your laptop, thus preserving all available bandwidth for your test and you get better peeds.
I would recommend you not connect directly to the Internet, unless you have very heavy-duty protection in place.
I do not feel my answer is the complete answer, but may be part of the total answer, and has not been mentioned in another answer.