If the power supply is faulty, the rest won´t work at all.
So, in 10 minutes, my PC was back on business with no problem.
03 - You could test the power supply in the other computer in order to see if it´s good, but beware !
The first thing is to open the computer and test essencial pieces, always being very careful with your equipment ( remember static electricity ).
I simply put the Acronis True Image disk on the drive, booted up by it, located the image file on an external hard disk and restored the whole partition in 10 minutes.
It it works, you could use a software called Acronis True Image ( or similar ) and make an image of the whole disk just in case.
04 - The most precious thing: You could and should check if your data on HD is intact, by putting the hard disc on other computer and see if it works.
02 - If the power supply is good, you should test bios, motherboard and CPU.
With this image, you can transfer the content back to the HD or to a new HD ( if necessary, some power problems could cause HD failure, but many times we can retrieve the information ) without losing any data.
( the contrary may work: If the power supply is not good, you could bring the other computer power supply and test on it ).
The worst thing is trying to fix things that aren´t really damaged.
I highy recommend creating images of your boot disks from time to time.
The best solution in cases like this since your equipment has no more warranty, is one of two: If you don´t really know what you are doing, DON´T DO IT, this makes things worst, so take it to a technician, or to a friend who can test and repair for you.
Make a bios reset, by taking out the battery and putting the jumper which control bios reset on the reset position, wait for about 30 seconds and then put it back.
If the power supply is faulty, it could damage your other computer, so, there´s a solution, that is locating the power supply wires which turns it on, so, you could  turn on the power supply without a computer, and with a multimeter, testing the voltages.
Even yesterday, I had a problem like yours that my windows 7 wouldn´t boot up, blue screen.