With this service it's easy to ship the Terabytes of data to your bucket without paying extra money to your internet service provider.
It also provides enterprise backup features like job scheduling, CLI, compression and encryption.
I agree with the previous answer about many backup software tools that allow to seed the data and then automatically synchronise it with your cloud account.
you can use any backup software integrated with cloud storage provider.
It will take time in any case, even if you encrypt it as the amount is big enough.
Depending on your ISP capabilities you can evaluate how much time will you spend for this task.
Nowadays you should evaluate how much time and money will you spend by uploading such a big amounts of data somewhere offsite or to the cloud.
I currently have an external hard drive with 4 TB's that I would like to upload to something like Google Drive.
In most cases you don't pay for them and they work with all modern cloud storages.
For instance, AWS offers the service called AWS Import/Export Snowball.
As for the encryption, any third-party backup tool can do it for you e.g.
Some of them give even a client-oriented encryption for a person to feel safer and more secure.
I am wondering if anyone here had any suggestions about way to upload an entire external hard drive to a cloud service.
This option allows you to utilise less API calls for seeding a lot of files.
Some of the mentioned above also have archive mode.
On the other hand, if you want to land your data somewhere other than AWS - you can use any backup tools.
I've naively tried to hookup another 5 TB drive as the destination for the encrypted file, but it is taking much much longer than I thought.
A third-pary tool is an option in your case to do with things quicker.
Before doing so, I'd like to encrypt it using something like 7zip before uploading it.
At the enterprise level, Veeam, Microsoft DPM and other EMC products can be an option but it totally depends upon the backup requirements.
If you have good speed, you need a bit of patience to upload all the data.
I tried CloudBerry Cross-Platform Cloud Backup which provides a simple GUI to manage backup and restores and cloud storage account comes bundled with the software.
Also, you should consider where you'd like to store your data.