The actual "data" (i.e., your document) is contained in the TCP segment (after the TCP header) of the packet.
What I can't get a definitive answer to is where does the actual content go in a TCP segment?
Maybe the fact I am asking proves I have no clue...
The 'datagram' is the size of the IP header + data.
The data portion continues to the end of the packet.
When I email something or download a program, or do anything else over a network, where in the segment is the actual content?
That's the size of the entire packet including headers.
Please see RFC 793 (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc793.txt).
That should give you a much better idea as to what's happening when you sent data via TCP.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TCP_packet#TCP_segment_structure
I think I understand the concept of header wrapping of each successive layer in the protocol stack.
I suggest downloading a tool like Wireshark (http://www.wireshark.org) and capturing the network traffic as you send your file.
A packet can be variable size due to differing MTu settings along the path, so the exact number of packets a portion of higher-protocol data gets carved into depends.
Here's a pretty good representation of the data portion of packets, which I found on http://concept51.co.uk/in_how_networks.html :
The offsets for that data section were mentioned in another answer.
Wireshark will interpret the packets for you (you can even right click on one of the packets which contain data from your file and select 'Follow TCP Stream').
The size of the data in the packet is determined by the TCP Maximum Segment Size (MSS).
The data comes at offset 160 if no option-headers are present, and further down (multiples of 32) if IP option headers are present.
The content gets broken up into chunks and put into the "data" portion of the packets.
I get, I think, the OSI model and I have a decent grasp of the IP protocol.
The data-field size is variable based on header length, as I described above.
If I am emailing a 20KB word document, and the maximum data field size in a segment is 1500 bytes, does that mean it takes about 14 segments to mail my document wherever it is going?
You will also be able to look at each successive packet header which is decoded and explained for you by Wireshark.
You are incorrect in the maximum data field size being 1500b.