From the Run prompt (Win+R), enter shell:startup, and shell:common startup and make sure no shortcuts to uTorrent exist in these folders.
Next, go to Task Manager > Startup, and disable uTorrent.
For many ISPs, they will simply shut off your internet and getting it turned back on is excruciatingly difficult.
Even if you are not at your computer, do not ever see it, know of it, nor use it, your ISP does and they CAN decide that this alone constitutes pirating (certain files are specifically flagged and monitored across the internet).
You will get some popup warnings that these changes affect your computer and that is okay.
C:\users(username)\appdata\roaming\microsoft\windows\startmenu\programs\start-up
Here you will find a uTorrent shortcut which links it to the uTorrent.exe file.
Also: consider using Deluge as an alternative to uTorrent - works much better in my experience, is free (both as in free beer and free press), and has no ads.
SECOND FYI ABOUT uTORRENT : With peer-to-peer file sharing programs like uTorrent you need to beware that your computer is sharing files across the internet that may very well be illegally pirated.
So you'd disable it on your Windows Startup Programs manager.
I believe this information is not very visible when you are using or installing uTorrent.
Click the Startup tab, find your program, and uncheck the box.
When you shut down utorrent immidiatly check the taskmanager and you will see that utorrent takes about 15 seconds to terminate.
Reboot your system and it should start without uTorrent starting as well.
If your computer is frail and on its last legs, you want to beware of this.
Lastly, open Task Scheduler and make sure that none of the enabled tasks run uTorrent.
If you still dont beleive in my solution then endure.
After shutting down utorrent wait 5 seconds to shut down Windows.
FYI ABOUT uTORRENT : Within the past few years, uTorrent changed their program so that it uses your computer to mine for bitcoins when you are idle (that is, it runs your computer hard so that they can make invisible internet money).