It has much better scripting support then most clients built into operating systems.
Do you have to use the out-of-the-box-os ftp client?
This comes out of the dim recesses of my memory, as I haven't had to script command line FTP in this way since, oh, the 90's...
This question is therefore being answered as follows: Cause to FTP script line-skipping cannot be identified, however it can easily be solved by adding in a blank line to a script where line-skipping is found.
In this case, the server requests the password but ignores it.
If the server doesn't ask for a password, the blank line does nothing and is harmless.
Try using the alternate form (if they are Windows, use Unix, Unix if they are Windows).
Unfortunately there aren't many references on forums and the like, to this problem being resolved.
Neither is it likely that the cause will be identified without the assistance of FTP protocol experts who can actively debug an offending session.
If not, you may want to look at the NcFTP Client product(s).
Edit:  Missed the part about suggesting a different product.
In an FTP protocol session, after sending the username to the FTP server, the server may then ask for a password, even if the username indicates that anonymous FTP should be used (i.e.
Adding a blank line in a script appears to be an acceptable solution to line-skipping in FTP scripts.
Also considering the typical responses to asking such a question on open forums, I'd go as far as to say that committed participation in finding an answer to this issue will not occur without a considerable commercial effort.
NcFTP Client has a tool called ncftpbatch that allows for the automation of ftp processes without having to do all the manual work that automating the generic ftp would.
I would have preferred that this question be answered with real world references to similar occurrences and identification of the cause, but have to accept that this would likely not happen.
I just recently automated an ftp download process and the thought of having to automate the generic ftp client was not pleasing.
So in a script that drives the command line FTP client, a blank line would be used to send an empty password.
Consider using NCFTP instead: http://www.ncftp.com/ncftp/ .