Under his watch, half the department left in 2 years.
His style was just too different from what I was used to, but it was re-assuring to upper management to have a guy w/ an MBA to talk to.
then for another 6 months, the two assistant directors (including the guy who stepped down) ran the department.
I'm concerned because, as you have expressed, your not as technically skilled as our previous director and we're having some difficulty keeping the level of service as strong as it was."
If nothing else, it helps you formulate your resume later because you can easily recall everything you did.
It's not like they stuck their heads in the sand, but having picked her they felt they had to be sure they gave her ever chance to fit in and it wasn't until they'd tried that they dumped her.
Because we were so technically valuable to our new, but under-skilled boss, he was very willing to listen to our ideas and champion our causes.
We talked about what to do to convince our ultimate superiors that this man had been the wrong choice.
They promoted an internal person... but he stepped down after 6 months.
I complained to my other fulltime co-worker, with whom I had been friends for quite some time.
I would venture to guess that part of your job is training new employees.
They might have picked someone that they feel they can talk to (maybe a guy w/ an MBA who knows how to talk to CEOs, CFOs, any other Cs...
You probably aren't privy to all the management discussions affecting business.
I'd either try to "take lemons and make lemonade" as we did, or consider another position for yourself.
But he lasted there 4 years and, in my opinion (and most others who I knew who worked there), destroyed the department.
Not "designated hitter", but something similar to (but less kind than) "Department Head"... After 18 months I left.
More recently, during a merger, I had an IT Director "imposed" on me.
I've had two similar experiences: the first one wasn't in my department, it was a new CFO who turned out to be a nutcase and the Pres/VPs who picked her realized it and got rid of her.
Eventually, he re-organized the merged IT department and I would've been left in a clearly subordinate position, so I took the opportunity to get paid out and left.
Two months is not a tremendous amount of time to learn a new job, especially in light of "I find it hard to keep myself motivated when I'm constantly having to correct them or teach them how to do their job."
We took this opportunity to push forward with initiatives that we had long talked about implementing but never before had the influence to make happen.
We were a 3 full-time, 2 part-time employee IT shop with about 25 servers and 250 workstations to support.
Anybody who does these two things will have a pleasant and fruitful career.
They finally hired another person who seemed ok... until he was fired (not sure why) about 6 weeks later.
If he is arrogant, then I would suggest you start documenting EVERYTHING... because sometimes, people can get vengeful and documenting every move you make, while a pain and unpleasant, can help you keep your job if something happens later.
I would suggest, if it bothers you as much as the guy I had to work for bothered me (but hopefully, the guy you're working for is less arrogant), you could talk to him.
I gave 3 weeks notice and once I did, he didn't say a word to me - not a good morning nor a goodnight and never asked me to do anything.
And helping the others in the department so that we each got some experience in another field - or few other areas - was common.
One way or another, though, things have changed and you have to figure out what you're going to do.
Otherwise, you will be painted as a complainer, and you'll help get another man fired who, like you, is trying to make it through these tough times.
If he liked it, he'd try to get the money for it in the next budget year.
Bottom line: give the guy more than two months, be a team player, and find ways to make this situation beneficial for everyone involved, including your new boss.
"Mr. Smith, I was wondering... is there any plan to hire a more technically skilled person in the near future?
If he is, then it can be a temporary problem to have a boss  you don't think is very good.
All that you see is what affects you from the I.T.
Perhaps they're filling a much needed business-end function that was missing in your previous director.
You also don't mention whether or not you've even spoken directly to this new director.
Maybe this new director is good at translating business needs into technical solutions.
Then we finally realized something: we had more technical freedom than ever.
Not just me and a couple of other guys... but the ENTIRE department.
The way that you've stated what you've stated is rubbing me the wrong way.
If they thought you should have input into the selection of the new guy, they would've asked you up front.
I wasn't alone in disliking his schmoozy style and a few others left as well.
If not, cross your fingers and try to stick it out.
Then another six months went by and they hired another guy... On paper, he looked great... in reality, well, we started referring to him as DH.
You don't mention specifically what the new director is doing to be "more harm than good".
Our old director left to join a family business, and our new one was definitely not as advertised.
I'm pretty sure the director isn't hired to satisfy your needs, but the needs of the company in general.
If they wanted your approval, you would have been part of the hiring process.
In all honesty, you don't sound like someone I'd like to work with.
from one of the merging companies as well as their communications director.
In turn, we helped him increase his skillset dramatically, and by the time I left that job to move cross-country to be closer to family, he had grown into one of the best managers I've ever had.
I'm not going to get into whether you're whining or not - w/out knowing more about how things were before the new IT Director came along and how they are now, it's impossible for us reading this to judge.
But everyone enjoyed working there and the director was the kind of person who ASKED his subordinates for their opinions and, in fact, if I had an idea I thought could help the company, I could write up a proposal and bring it to him.
is not willing to listen to you and work with your ideas, then you are probably not going to be able to change the situation.
phoebus just posted an example of changing what started as a bad situation, and that sort of thing can be done, but it depends on the personalities: is the new guy willing to support his new team?
Convincing higher-ups that they've made a bad decision because you think it's bad is hard to do.
If he's truly as bad as you say, then it will be exposed naturally.
He was finally removed (not sure the exact circumstance - some people say he was given a deadline to leave).