Because OpenBSD supports a broad range of hardware, we can rollout server grade equipment for our primary machines, and lower-end desktops as our redundant hosts (or we just build a temporary box to fill in for the main machine during the update cycle.)
Follow Unix related security announcement websites/mailing lists.
Between OS releases, we install everything from sketch.
For our firewalls, all the data is in the configuration and log files.
For the BASE OS, we continue to have success with just installing the new binaries over the old ones.
In our deployed OpenBSD hosts (30+), and experience, backing up the configuration and data is not difficult.
- I watch the squish.net daily digests, as well as the general direction shown on the Tech and Misc mailing lists.
When security updates are published, we evaluate the actual security issue with the profile of machines with that version of the OS/vulnerability.
Preferably, we backup all the OS and Application configuration/data files, format and reinstall the patched OS and reinstall packages (retaining the original data)
I'm sure there's enough documentation out there for the process, but essentially we build a reference machine with the same configuration as the system to be "replaced."
Obviously build and test your install procedure on separate hardware (or VM) before doing it on your production machines.
It's more difficult to keep track of security updates for ports/packages, but if it's critical enough to be on our infrastructure then it's important enough to keep track off in a similar manner to BASE.
The two hosts where we install software from source are a pain to update between version updates of the OS.
For Ports/Packages - where the changes are simple, we modify our own port and build the package from that.
Having an updated port simplifies the process above.
Fortunately for us, we have redundant hosts for many things and can therefore roll out with minimal downtime of services.
Go through the same tests required before deploying the host.
If the vulnerability is relevant that we go through the "same version upgrade procedure."
We backup the configuration from the reference host and install OpenBSD on the production host, restoring the "verified" configuration ontop of it (again running the same validation tests afterwards.)
Our update procedures are heavily dependent on using the ports/packages system for non-BASE software.