This will render the tool not being able to change the setup questions' options.
This would open up a whole new world of possibilities for malware, one which it's creators would take full advantage.
Typically settings are stored in the CMOS but there is no requirement for this.
and the UEFI FW provides an EFI NVRAM variable that points to the system memory address where the metadata is placed.
(TLDR Version: How can I access (read and write) all BIOS settings (such as enabling/disabling virtualization, enable/disable turbo frequency of GPU, set log display time etc..) from CLI?)
What you call BIOS is (at least) 3 different things:
And now, we have the new generation of BIOSes, such as this one.
If you could down the UEFI Specification, it explains the HII in detail.
Manufacturers are free to store settings wherever and however they choose.
So here is the list of my questions (I'm an electronics engineer so you can go for details or refer technical readings without a hesitation).
If your system is running UEFI firmware, it is possible to develop a CLI tool that would allow you to systematically enumerate all BIOS setup questions and available answers to each of them.
There is no generic way an OS can access the system BIOS.
As to where the settings are stored: Most vendors use battery-backed static RAM ("CMOS-RAM" in ancient nomenclature), which is why it is a hassle if those CR2032 cells on the mainboard die.
After that, I've changed the bios settings (such as virtualization, enable/disable IGD turbo, changing usb settings etc.)
This is not the case, and I don't think it would be a good idea anyway.
Often UEFI FW will lock the BIOS setup configuration before booting to OS, to protect it.
With this it can literally act like a BIOS setup utility running on top of your OS.
Of course safeguards could be developed but they could be and would be evaded
The Tool (HII Parser) must implement the HII support.
This software must be designed for specific versions of the BIOS.
Some manufacturers have created software for their own systems, at least for Windows.
I have been searching around 8 hours and I would like to clear the points that I haven't fully figured out yet.
In nutshell the UEFI FW contains HII metadata in a spec defined data structure.
This would only be possible if manufacturers were to provide detailed information and there were established standards as to how this is to be done.
If legitimate software could access the BIOS then there would be nothing to stop malicious software from doing the same.
several times and dumped the entire contents of following files/commands on each boot.
This means, that there is no vendor-neutral universal way of manipulating all the settings, that the setup utility provides.
While the latter two expose a well-defined set of APIs, the former does not.
So typically an OEM would instrument their UEFI firmware to allow this and also provide the CLI Tool (HII parser).
I've compared the dump results side by side with Meld and woala!
You can also then use the CLI tool to change the option of a specific setup question.
And then it could be used for personality dump/load/migration usage models.
The issue is that the BIOS is proprietary to each manufacturer.