I installed the Zoom Client for Meetings on a Win7 box.
(They always use Program Files or Program Files (x86).)
This usually includes programs that give you an option to install for “this user only” or “all users” of this computer.
This can be a source of confusion as some applications can be installed simultaneously for one user account and system-wide for all user accounts.
Similarly, installing application in user context allows an application to be made available for only one user.
This software is a popular application used by many people (in other words, it's not just some shady random piece of software).
If the admin then logs in, they will NOT see the application in their programs listing.
What surprised me is that the application installed itself in C:\Users\[username]\AppData\Roaming\Zoom\.
Applications that install for only one user do this.
As a systems admin, you may notice that “non-admin” users have certain applications installed and showing up in the “Programs & Features” list.
The former is installed under AppData - for one specific user.
Another interesting fact is that the application will only show up under your user account when viewing the “Programs & Features” listing.
You may immediately question how that user was able to install software on the computer.
Re-installing the application wouldn't have changed this behavior.
This is also a good indication that the application does NOT require elevated permissions to run.
Is this an error by the development team, or does it sometimes make sense to install an application into AppData?
(As a side-question, Windows' application compatibility assistant popped up and asked if the application was installed correctly.
For these reasons, it is perfectly normal for an application like this to install under AppData.
I've never seen an application install itself in AppData before.
The application has to also be uninstalled by the same user who installed it.
Actually this is perfectly normal and expected behavior.
Applications do not have write permissions in the Program Files folders unless you click to Allow the program to “make changes to your computer,” during installation.
It is designed for one specific user, and does not require elevated permissions to function.
Since the application appeared to work, I did not try an immediate reinstall via the compatibility assistant.
Installing application in system context allows an administrator to make the application available for all the users in a computer.
Install context allows admins to specify if the application is to be installed in user context or system context.
This is mostly for administrative reasons and is known as Install Context