Downgrading is possible with some installations, but it will keep the same sub-version.
Sharing this key is not illegal nor wrong as it is common knowledge and shared globally.
You may have to use slui.exe (Windows Activation Client).
You can reinstall windows 10 with a windows 8 keycode though.
This resolution does not require a reinstallation.
He doesn't even need pro and I was wondering if it's possible to get back to the home key that came with the laptop.
This means you will have to a clean install of windows.
My son's machine had Windows 8/8.1 Home and updated to Windows 10.
They didn't ship the computer with any key that I can find.
It didn't work obviously and now he see's a "Activate Windows" watermark on the screen and has an un-activated generic pro key tied to this computer.
So Windows 10 pro to windows 8 pro is yes, but windows 10 pro to windows 10 home is not.
This key specifies it only works for people with a License connected to their account.
Someone told him to use a random Windows 10 Pro key and he would get Pro for free.
Since he updated from Windows 8 Home to Windows 10 Home using his Microsoft Account he will share the SAME KEY as everyone else (who have done the same thing as him).
The whole activation/product key thing is very confusing now that it's in the BIOS.
Some things you want want on hand is the OEM License Key and Product Key of Windows 8.1 or 8 if you are connected to an agent if this activation fails.
This may also be handy if you want to reinstall Windows 8 or 8.1 (if you want to do the entire nagging process over again from 8.1).
You can't just convert from any install to a lower-grade version.
Is it possible to find the home key that came with the laptop?
Any help or pointing me in the right direction would be great.
You may have to deactivate some firewalls (third-party and or Windows Defender).
To obtain the information (do this beforehand) use the utility ProduKey.exe .
By using this key, as it is linked with their Microsoft Account, they must be logged in as they activate with this key, using an account in which they had upgraded with before.
Unlike the other utilities (as posted) this one is free and it gets the OEM keys that are inbuilt into BIOS.