In your router's "Network Address Server Settings (DHCP)" section, set the starting address to "100".
Find a new router that supports Static DHCP assignment.
Then, on the computers you want to have static addresses, go into Network → Advanced → TCP/IP and assign the address manually.
Both options require configuration of your DHCP server, but standard home network routers often only allow the first.
This will tell your router to only assign addresses between 192.168.1.100 and 192.168.1.254  (or whatever your first three octets are, perhaps 10.0.0.X).
I cannot figure out what DHCP with Manual means for the life of me, and non airport extreme related topics are really scarce.
Assuming any of your machines are laptop(s), configuring the computer itself may have issue attempting to connect to off-site networks.
Put in an IP address lower than 100, such as 192.168.1.99, a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0, and a router address of 192.168.1.1 (assuming this is the address of your router).
If you're up to it, your current router should be support by the DD-WRT router firmware ("Services" > "Services").
How do we set this up, and do I need to change the settings of System Preferences -> Network -> Advanced -> TCP/IP as well?
Then save your settings, and this Mac will now always have the same address.
I have read the manual and could find no word on this, so I'm asking here.
machine's MAC (the network card's "serial number"), quite a few routers support the ability to ensure that machine gets the same IP when it connects to the network.
This means we cannot allow DHCP to change the IP addresses of the devices, but we would still like it to add a new device when it comes along automatically, and give it its own IP.
Even cheap routers can be found with this ability (eg.
I have a couple Macs on a wireless network, this router model: http://homesupport.cisco.com/en-us/wireless/lbc/WRT54GL
Now, since we've set up VNC and SSH to these work Macs from home, we would like our work Macs to keep the same local IP addresses, in order for port forwarding to function correctly.
You will have to be careful not to assign two computers the same IP address, or they will conflict with each other.