If you're just looking for a Hypervisor to host your VMs, have a look at proxmox (http://pve.proxmox.com/).
Today I discovered this new software, Zentyal, which looks interesting for system and network administration.
But if you want access by way of the web interface, then I believe you'll have to code that into the files (it's written in PHP I think) to allow those additional servers to be shown.
It's still just Ubuntu Linux so you can put anything else on there.
Then just use one box, with Zentyal, and redundancy and survival is not an issue.
It sounds like you're asking whether other servers can be used on a Zentyal installation.
However, I haven't understood one thing: can it be used only with its preconfigured packages or can it also be used to control other servers running other programs (in my case, the four virtual machines)?.
First, you just want to run some servers at home and this isn't live and essential to some venture.
I'm new to sysadmin and this site, but I'll try my best to answer this based on my experience with that distro.
a file server, a multimedia server, a firewall and a print server as of now).
As to whether to use Zentyal or not overall, it's a decent distro but I wouldn't use the free version for a massive network.
The commercial version is much more robust with better support.
Second, this is for some business or operational function and therefore necessary.
But it probably won't help you with administering those virtual machines.
I am currently in the process of creating a home server, made up of several virtual machines, each running a different type of server (i.e.
You don't specify what you're using it for, and how many boxes you have to work with (physical or virtual) so we'll say 2 possibilities.
Also, would you suggest to use such a program or do you think it's better to control each server on its own?
It depends on which services you need, but Zentyal already ships many different services.
If you go for different virtual machines, Zentyal can be the Hypervisor for your needs.
Then do not host all servers on one box for standard practice reasons.
To reduce administrative work, I'd recommend to use as few servers as necessary.
Having all services on one box is not typically allowed in production networks but from home, it's not as big of a deal and you make the call.
You could use Zentyal for all your needs without using other virtual machines.