They are the reason why it's important to always have the latest security fixes for your software installed.
Ensure that your system is kept up to date, and you don't have any services that aren't required.
These connections are dangerous as eventually someone will be quicker at exploiting you than you are at patching.
They simply scan entire network ranges and will therefore find unadvertised servers like yours.
I would consider some sort of authentication before responding.
These are just people trying to find vulnerabilities in servers.
You can't hide except by setting some way to deny the public (vpn, acl on a firewall, directaccess etc.).
There is very little you can do about this and it's just normal business on the internet.
If they find a vulnerability, they'll either log it (and you can expect a manual attack shortly) or will automatically infect your machine with a rootkit or similar malware.
It'll just be people scanning certain IP ranges -- you can see from the phpMyAdmin one, that it is trying to find a badly secured pre-install version of PMA.
in one large sweep, this bot tried to find phpmyadmin:
I have no idea how they're finding my IP, because i only use it for personal use, and added a robots.txt hoping it'd keep search engines away.
As other have noted, they are likely doing brute force scanning.
lots of "proxyheader.php", i get quite a bit requests with http:// links in the GET
They're not playing nice and don't care about your robots.txt.
Are these connections dangerous/what can I do about it?
(The following advice assumes Linux/UNIX, but most may be applied to Windows Servers.)
Once it's found one, it can get surprising access to the system.
I get all sorts of junk, even with win95 user-agents.
In most cases the server only needs read access to the content it serves.
Also, lots of the IPs come from all sorts of countries, and don't resolve a hostname.
How are these bots (or people) finding the server?
The internet is public space, thus the term public ip.
These are robots scanning for known security exploits.
I block indexes and there's nothing really important on it.
To limit the damage they can do to your system make sure that the apache process can only write to directories and files that it should be able to change.
If you are on a dynamic IP address they might be more likely to scan your address.
I've installed Apache a while ago, and a quick look at my access.log shows that all sorts of unknown IPs are connecting, mostly with a status code 403, 404, 400, 408.