I ran into this issue RDPing into servers to do stuff on them.
In this case, I am always challenged with the task of traversing directories using my administrative user via the Windows Explorer where regular users do not have "read" permissions.
This was frustrating for me as well until I studied up on why UAC interrupts my traversal of folders that I have inherent access to as an administrator.
\\localhost\c$\path)  as the "Administrators" group membership is still stripped from the token and a re-authentication (and thus the creation of a new token) would not happen when accessing localhost.
I don't think it is a good idea to turn off UAC or run the whole Windows Explorer shell in elevated mode.
I think Explorer is not a good tool to do serious work with many files anyways.
Also many of them run portable, so you don't need to install them, just copy a few files over and run it.
One for normal usage, one for elevated administrative usage.
Instead think about using a different tool to do your file management.
There are many Explorer-replacement tools out there, some free, some commercial.
A program with two panes side by side is much better suited for this.
I am profoundly annoyed by UAC and switch it off for my admin user wherever I can.
I'm not making a recommendation for a particular tool, that's a different question
I have seen this post with a suggestion for altering HKCR - interesting, but it changes the behavior for all users, which I am not allowed to do in most situations.
If you add that to the folder ACLs, your admins will be able to browse the folder structure without getting hit with a UAC prompt.
All of them can be run elevated so permissions are no longer a problem.
What I would love to see would be a way to run Windows Explorer in elevated mode.
\\remote.com\c$  Gets me to the stuff I want as an administrator without restriction.
The possible two approaches to this problem so far:
Also, some folks have suggested using UNC paths to access the folders - unfortunately this does not work when accessing the same machine (i.e.
Yet, there are situations where I can't - especially if those are machines not under my continuous administration.
But other suggestions solving this problem in an unobtrusive way without changing the entire system's configuration (and preferably without the need for downloading / installing anything) are very welcome, too.
The File dialog it provides is itself elevated, giving you the ability to traverse directories.
I can access the files from explorer on my home system and it gives me full access.
The remaining issue is that you are transferring files between systems while working on them, but for small files.