All in all though I say the pros outweigh the cons.
They just make the job of keeping your server room tidier so much easier; the only downside of that is that you may find The Powers That Be trying to foist a smaller server room on you once they get an inkling of how much space they save!
You'll probably find that with this sort of layout you won't be using the full extent of each rack, but that's extra space for that new box you always need to be able to slot in in a hurry.
I will warn you though, they weigh a ton, are louder than a jet engine, and look like minitanks...
If they are 1U servers, they hardly take up any space in the rack.
I use the HP blade servers and with the enclosure gui and lights out technology, they are very easy to administer and work with.
If you ware working around them and want rack servers DO NOT Get 1U equipment it is so loud, at the school I work out there are some 3/4U servers and a 1U firewall that overpowers all the other noise!
Personally, I bought a server rack off a salvager on Craigslist for $150 and have two systems in it, along with all my networking gear.
Plus if you have room, you can mount your switches and firewalls on the upper portion of it, while keeping your rack servers on the bottom.
Rack servers are really nice, once you do get a rack, all of the servers you have can eventually be converted to racks, and take up a fraction of the amount of space.
Generally I like to see servers partitioned into separate racks: that's the rack that does our internal stuff, that's the rack that does our external stuff; that's the rack that holds our big databases, and so on.
Therefore it's not difficult to set them up to run quietly if that's important.
You buy the enclosure and then blades as you need them.
Many 4U Rackmount cases are basically standard ATX computer cases with a similar layout and compatible mounting points (fans, drives, etc).
If you can match them up with who holds what admin role, then you can keep your DBAs physically away from your file server admins, and so on and vice versa.
It also makes the job easier if one group ever wants or needs to move to a different server room.
Just like any computer, it's a tradeoff with cooling.
Especially nice if you can get fairly secure lockable racks.
You can identify their stuff instantly (it's in their rack!)
The major disadvantage of rack servers though is that you lose a certain amount of flexibility, in terms of the fact that they're not as portable.
Pulling out a box for decommissioning needs a bit more care, and you can't as easily bring a box off to a lab for testing should you ever need to.
Once you have the rack installed, adding servers and devices will not increase the amount of space consumed at all, until it fills up and you need another rack.
Dell does have servers that are designed to be either towers or rackmounted, if you are really concerned about flexibility.
You can keep switches and other devices physically located in the same rack as the servers they are associated with for a nicely compartmentalised setup.
and shut it down, move it, then bring it back up, all without having to worry about impact on other groups.
It is a little more costly at first as you have to purchase the enclosure, but they are nice.
Now the other option for you to look at is blade servers.
I don't miss tower servers at all, and a few short years ago, that is all I had at one of my jobs.