-Or supposedly just installing amd drivers, amd sdk and intel IGP drivers + reboot enable both IGP and GPU and they then both support opencl.
Users in the cryptocurrency community usually solve this by either:
-Using DVI-A or such to vga adaptor and make a dummy plug with resistors.
It lets you specify the OpenCL device, and both Intel and AMD ICDs were available, so I went ahead and chose AMD.
If you are unable to reproduce this functionality, it could be:
Right now what happen is when i boot on IGP as primary, GPU (r9 290) is detected but labeled inactive by miner applications and GPU-Z report OpenCL disabled for the r290 and also for the IGP.
Using the latest available graphics drivers from Intel and AMD for Windows 8.1 64-bit, with my BIOS's "IGP Multi-monitor mode" set to "Enabled", I was able to use the IGP as my graphics card by plugging an HDMI HDTV into the motherboard, with nothing plugged into the Radeon, and use the Radeon for compute in the OpenCL application "Diablo Miner" (Java program).
(the later is supposed to be enabled if you can install opencl 1.2 for intel IGP but i edit:can't because of same previous error)
In conclusion, there are various things it could be, but the configuration should be possible without having to create a fake VGA plug or anything silly like that.
Recent Intel and AMD drivers -- at least on Windows 8/8.1, can't speak for 7 -- should be able to support "compute from anything, render to anything" configurations, where you can choose which device you want to be the graphics renderer, and choose which device you want to be the compute card.
From what I understand, a chip on the motherboard from LucidLogix is supposed to support or enable this, but I don't have their software installed, so I'm not sure if my LucidLogix Virtu MVP device is enabling me to have this configuration, or if it's just built into the platform controller hub of all Z77-series motherboards.
However, all my hardware run with DVI-D. Vga adaptors don't fit.
I am in a similar situation as you, but I got this to work.
My problem is the intel website auto detect doesnt work, manually getting drivers for my i3 3220 IvyBridge all return "computer does not meet requirement" when trying to install them.