If you are planning for the future, then you are much better off using more traditional and proven techniques like making backups.
Like pretty much everything else in the universe, it has its pros and cons.
After that, there is some sort of chain (FAT, MFT, inodes, etc.)
When you are trying to recover data, you are likely to get the start of a file more than the end.
However, if you are recovering files from a volume in which any given file may or may not be corrupt, then chances are equally good (equal to any other file-type) that the RAR file is also corrupt and if you perform an archive-test on it, it will report that at least some of the contained files are corrupt.
If you do use RARs for archiving important data, add a recovery record.
If you are wondering if you should store your files as RARs in order to increase recovery success, then I would say no.
Here are a few, but they are not really specific to RARs, they apply to archive files in general:
The reason that the RAR files seem to be okay is because they store most of their meta-data (e.g., the details of the contained files) at the beginning of the file.
However if the file is fragmented (part of it is stored here, part there, etc.)
then recovery is not likely and you will end up with only the first cluster (512/4096 bytes) of the file.
On the other hand, ZIP files store their meta-data at the end of the file, so if you do not have the whole file, it cannot be read at all.
If you have unfragmented files (files that are stored in a block of contiguous clusters), then 100% recovery of the file is almost assured so long as you have the starting cluster and the size (you may end up with some junk padding the end of the file depending on the recovery program; PhotoRec falls into this category).
that keeps track of each subsequent piece of the file.
This is because the file-system always stores a pointer to the beginning of the file in the directory entry.
As such, any RAR files you find that are in fact RAR files (that is, they actually start out as a RAR file instead of containing data from something else) will look like they work.