There is some legal precedent for going after games that are "close" (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexulous) but that was in an Indian court so I know much less about their IP laws (see also: the various FOSS StarCraft clone projects, most threatened with suits because they had "craft" in the name).
But, and this is a big but, just because you are doing everything right, it doesn't mean you won't get C&D'd, or be sued.
I could make a game called "Crystallized" that was Bejeweled, in every imaginable way, and as long as I didn't copy the art from Bejeweled (either directly, or by drawing new art that just happens to be nigh-identical) I'd be totally fine.
Recently some companies have tried to bring patent suits against some big-name game companies, claiming things as outlandish as they have a patent for the concept of text chat.
The answers above are all pretty much spot on, unless you're copying something closely, you should be okay.
Of course if you just want to knock down clones of popular games to make a quick buck, I doubt that anyone would bother with the hassle of legal action against you, since more often then not, if you just copied something and don't put your own spin on the issue, then it probably wont sell well enough to matter to the original.
Time will tell as to if these are a real threat, but until your revenue is in the millions I wouldn't worry about it.
Game mechanics are not subject to intellectual property controls.
Game design is pretty much one giant incestuous ball of borrowing, and, honestly, is better for it.
Unfortunately, a lot of business and individuals use the legal system as a bludgeon against competitors and will often issue cease and desist orders to try and get a competing product taken down, or head straight to a lawsuit.
Yes, but there are so many similar clone games out there that the rules are probably very slack or nonexistent
My personal belief is that if you have to ask the question, then you probably know in your heart that what you are doing is borderline wrong.
Much of this behaviour depends on the cost of a lawsuit and the willingness of the competitor to spend the money and fight.
Game mechanics cannot be copyrighted or protected in any fashion.
So, the short answer is that you should be okay most of the time, but you can't be guaranteed not to be the target of a frivolous lawsuit.
Keep in mind that you can be sued for anything, even if you're not breaking any contracts or laws, and they might win.
Game mechanics have been copied often enough that, if this weren't the case, I have no doubt we'd have heard about it by now.
Names can be trademarked and any game code or assets are subject to copyright protection.
If you redrew every sprite from your favorite game they would not be violating any copyrights (but might be violating a trademark if it is something high profile).
These are things I've heard many times over and have no reason to doubt.
If you cant be true to an art that you created then why bother.
But I've never heard of that happening with regards to game design.
Trademark law generally draws a distinction based on if an "average consumer" could be mislead into thinking you were related to the other property.
It may or may not be legal, but to me its besides the point.
Copyright is much simpler since it only covers concrete works.
Even big companies often settle when faced with a bogus patent or IP lawsuit because it's easier and less costly.