What could be an issue depending on what you need is it's ability to run with higher resolutions and multiple video outputs (for example if you want to run with more than one screen and with high resolutions).
I personally attributed this to offloading the graphics processing from the chipset - again, this is just personal experience, I have no proof or benchmarking to back it up.
It is my understanding that you need a capable video card to run the Aero effects.
Where you might notice a difference is that certain features of certain programs won't run.
Since computers are so powerful now, many software products employ eye candy to make the UI look better.
Ultimately, if your computer is working to your satisfaction, I'd not bother updating it.
Video cards off board graphics processing from the main CPU/memory to a set designated and specially designed for video processing.
But yeah, if it works for you, it works for you :)
I do not really see any difference with the old one.
If you don't see any difference and don't use any applications that need a powerful video card, then there is no reason to buy one.
At the end of the day, unless you are doing graphically demanding applications, you should not see any difference.
If you don't use the features of a video card, then it generally won't have an effect on your system performance.
This would have an effect on your computer performance, however most of the time your processor is likely not utilized anyway.
For everyday applications (word processing, browsing the internet) then the integrated graphics on your motherboard is probably good enough.
Since my fancy video card have gone south, I've been using the motherboard integrated one (some Intel with 256mb)
I don't do games or video editing in the PC and now I'm wondering if buying a new video card is a smart choice.
Since you don't run games or the alike, you'll likely not notice a difference.
I have noticed on several machines that had integrated graphics (in particular Intel integrated) by upgrading to the cheapest graphics card that cost ~£20, I noticed a small increase in performance of general computing - starting up and launching other application.
I still believe that most people will find more bang-for-their-buck in maxing out their system memory over other upgrades.
That being said, I have no proof to back it up, but - I think it really depends on the motherboard and chipset or integrated graphics used.
It is certainly possible that the integrated video card can support this but the processing load would be put on your main processor.