For example, if you use Windows networking a lot, you can use a program (like nmbd) that synchronizes browse lists across the two networks.
What I want to do is to be able to access the network devices of network A from network B and vice versa.
All you have to do in the router that connects the two networks it this:
So, I want things to stay as they are right now, adding the ability for PC A1 to "see" PC B1 etc.
Event if these two routers are physically connected, you'll need to setup the ports that the inter-router cable connects to differently from the others and then setup static routes.
However, you can still access the files by entering the IP addresses directly.
You'll have to do some setup so the broadcast messages go through, which you probably can't on a home router.
Depending on what tools you plan to use, there are various ways around this.
For example, if the bridging router is 192.168.1.2 and 192.168.2.2, you'll need to add these two routes:
Note that computers in the two networks will be in different broadcast domains, so they won't easily discover each other.
Then, to make it work, you'll have to log into each of your two existing routers and add a route.
For the ones that do, you probably have to use the "WAN" port to connect the two routers (as the LAN ports are behind a switch chip and cannot be configured individually), which means you'll have no access to an external network unless you do a more complicated configuration.
And I also want the devices to access the internet via the router on their respective network, for example PC A1 should access the internet via MODEM A and PC B1 via MODEM B.
I would recommend adding a bridging router that would be connected to both networks.
You can use pretty much any router with at least two Ethernet ports and that can run aftermarket firmware (like Tomato, OpenWRT, DD-WRT, and so on).
Also, Windows file sharing host discovery (which I assume is what you mean for computers to see each other) does not work very well over different sub nets.