Are you leaving the User accounts separate for security?
you don't have to attach to each machine and create the same user over and over and set the permissions.
I recently moved into a (relatively large / successful) shop without MS AD.
As for Centralized user management any LDAP (or SiteMinder) could be an option as well.
That being said my office is small (about 15), and we have no official IT department.
If they change their password, it is the same everywhere; they don't have to remember to change it on all 10 machines (or worse forget it and need you to reset it for them, every other week).
For you it gives the benefit of central/global control of permissions.
Obviously these benefits also bring some overhead, and a good deal of work and time is needed to setup an AD environment, especially if you have an existing setup, however the benefits of the centralise management that AD brings are well worth it, in my opinion.
I switched over to AD at about 150 users in three different organizations.
I think the biggest benefit, is GPO's  When they log-in to the domain to can send policies to their PC that can protect the security of your entire network.
Sure, you miss out on Microsoft/Windows Single Sign On but there are other solutions for that such as Authentication Proxies (SiteMinder, webseal etc)
It all runs like the energizer bunny, and we haven't had many issues with vendors or software.
So yes, you can be a successful shop without (MS) AD, you just need to find the alternative.
We've ranged from ~103 to ~117 users, with 4 sites in 3 states for the last 2 years, with turnover of interns and clerks.
If the same users need to use all the machines, AD will give them these benefits:
If you have folders that have special permissions for groups and a new person is hired, you just add them to the group and done.
Using Active Directory brings a number of advantages to your network, a few I can think of off the top of my head:
If the login into the domain they are trusted in the all the places they and their groups are trusted.
Also each user's machine will be in the domain, so can be controlled by the domain.
We run the entire firm with 1 server box for domino/notes and accounting, a couple of dedicated w2k8 servers for specialty software, about 5 or 6 dedicated generic windows boxes for various apps and... 2 linux boxes for all file server needs and backup, plus a 3rd box for a firewall.
I successfully ran a system without Active Directory; however, you need to compensate the demands through alternative tools.
So we (over)use MS Groove as our Infrastructure, and have no AD or any central servers really; We are Laptop based.
Do the users of each machine only use that machine?