RDP is not capable of Internet sharing, so you can't share Internet using RDP with standard applications.
If you can't obtain the DVD elsewhere you could still download the media image using the server and then transfer it to a local PC that has a DVD burner (possibly using Remote Desktop's drive sharing but using a shared folder on the network would be better).
At work I have two computers connected to the same network, each user can download a limited quota of 400 MB each day from internet, but I need more than this.
In theory you could write code that abuses the RDP protocol to tunnel internet traffic, but it's unlikely a tool like that already exists...
There is a server computer beside me which has unlimited internet access, and I can connect to this computer via remote desktop.
There are many way to share Internet from a Windows box to another one.
Not to mention, automatic updates are closed by administrator.
You could try upgrading your PC using DVD or USB media instead of an online install.
The proxy app will have to be configured for a specific port, you will then need to configure that port + the ip address of your server as a proxy in the browser of your laptop.
If you have administrative access to the server, you might be able to set it up as a proxy server, then connect your two computers to the internet through this proxy server, and run your upgrades.
Is it possible to use server computer's internet to upgrade my windows 7 to 10 though remote desktop?
If you only care about the Win 10 update, the easiest way would be to download an ISO version, configure a shared folder on your Win 7 PC, and place the ISO there from a remote desktop session on your server.
If you actually want to get better access to internet in general, then the easiest way could be to execute a proxy server app on a remote desktop session, like CCProxy or Squid, note that depending on the configuration of the firewall on the server, running such an app (or any similar app that opens a port on the system) may ask you for elevated privileges.