Do not put space before or after '=' sign in above command.
We use this at work over the internet, the compression / optimisation makes a serious difference - our VPN is now redundant!
Generally, if there is no evidence of an actual connection to the machine and you get "connection reset" errors, it suggests that VNC on the server never received the connection at all.
If firewall was a problem you would have got connection timed out error.
I have been, myself, looking for the cause and way to fix this problem.
If you still have problems connecting, make sure that you are connecting to the right port.
I have a eee server running ubuntu 9.04 desktop edition (can't install server edition with USB) and the machine will not accept ANY connections until I ping out from the server.
It seems to be a common issue with the desktop edition, but I have yet to figure out how to dissable this "feature".
Note: It is based upon GPL software, with some propietary addons.
Check /var/adm/messages and other logs for details on the attempted connection.
Also check to make sure that your firewall is not blocking the connection.
If you understand the TCP/IP protocol, this will show you the actual network traffic so you can see if the attempt actually reaches the server and what the results are.
Are any of your other connections getting through (ssh, http, etc)?
You can install XManager on windows PC and Run XManager Passive.
Use this command to see what the firewall looks like:
Although not open source it is free for Linux with free clients for Windows and Linux.
(assuming you are using that port - the default display, :0).
After running Xmanager passive, connect to Linux machine from Windows and type following command in putty / SSH Secure Shell Client
Connection has been reset is probably due to transparent security device that can only reset connections.
You could also try watching the connection attempt from the server by using this command:
I have found NX (No Machine) to be the most reliable - it appears to tunnel over port 22, so aslong as you can SSH OK (you mentioned PuTTY so I assume yes) you should be able to connect.
I prefer this over VNC as things look way way better using this method.
Then type some command like "gedit &" in putty and you should be able to see gedit in Windows.
It has a simple point-and-click install on the Windows side and about 5 minutes of configuration on the Linux side.
When we moved to a Linux database server, XMing really helped.