I dunno what your app does, but talking to a programmers perspective, you may write such programs which leads to this kind of situation.
I had the new computer for about 5-6 months so I think that forcing the game to run this way actually broke my video card :(
This was a bit unexpected for me, because the later Prince of Persia: Warrior Within worked just fine.
I turned the laptop off and back on, it was dead with relevant BIOS beep codes indicating a video failure.
To answer your question : yes (as others have pointed out), a software can definitely break hardware if the former is not protected in some way; if for instance the GPU fan is turned off then it will definitely blow up with a 100% chance of success :D
If the heat produced is out of operating range of your cooling system, then your cooling system is hardly of any use.
But the game didn't launch because it couldn't find the expected Pixel Shader support.
So, in the end I found of 3d analyser(http://www.tommti-systems.com/main-Dateien/files.html) and forced the game to run and played the game for several days.
But you should also remember that, the cooling system also have some threshold levels.
Starcraft II in 2010 had a problem where it had an uncapped framerate on menu screens placing an odd load on graphics cards, destroying cards from some vendor with insufficient thermal protection.
I used to have an Lenovo Thinkpad T61p with a Quadro FX570M built around August 2008, this batch was to known to have faulty GPUs that would one day or the other fail (soldering was sub-optimal on some of the GPU pins.)
G84/G86 mobile GPUs had solder joints that broke under acceptable temperature loads and eventually broke.
All of the above are a mixture of hardware defects and insufficient thermal designs, amplified by software load.
Design and manufacturing flaws in the GPU itself can also lead to the card dismantling itself under load.
I once had a GeForce 4 MX 440 graphics board and I wanted to play Prince of Persia: sands of time.
We also have the infamous Red Ring of Death of the XBox 360 which has similiar thermal problems with solder and expansion.
Everything was fine for about 5 years until I ran XCOM The Bureau on it (a game known for not really being optimized), the laptop was hot, fans at full speed and for about 1 hour of gaming it did freeze but not an usual freeze.
Imagine you write a program which drastically transfers data to your GPU to an infinite loop.
After a couple of days, my video card broke - didn't display anything anymore.
Now again is not its Cooling system's responsibility to take care of it?