More typically pps and bps affect you in low-end boxes running COTS CPU's, i.e.
When considering your upgrade, see what you are currently utilising.
These EANTC and Miercom engineers are given inside information for both platforms and they use this inside information to show how one platform (of paying customer) out-performs another platform.
Luckily rarely will in switch-like device will pps or bps become an issue to you, it's far more likely you'll be bitten by for example micro-bursting (consequence of small buffers) before even close to platforms bps/pps limits.
Despite different vendors use different names for the figures, seems the meaning is always the same.
SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) can help you achieve this.
Both pps and bps reported in datasheets are idealized numbers, not only is bps often double counted (the double counting comes from the fact that to cater 10Gbps interface, you'll need 20Gbps of memory bandwidth, so in this context it's fair, but may be confusing to buyer) like Mike explained.
For a given switch, vendors publish a couple of figures that I think are a measure of the capacity/performance of the switch:
Lately I have been checking datasheets of several switch models from diferent vendors.
In very generic and rough terms, bps measures memory bandwidth and pps measures lookup performance ('CPU' speed)
These are considered backplane or box throughput numbers.
Enable PAT, simple firewall rules, access control lists, QOS and you will find these numbers can even halve some of the time - this is often due to the processing capacity of a network device and every service running on a network device requires a certain amount of CPU resources.
This inherent feature is exploited when vendors buy 'verified by 3rd party' tests, like Cisco might pay Miercom to test Cisco+Juniper and Juniper might pay EANTC to test Cisco+Juniper.
Because they choose test-cases which target compromises in the idealized scenario chosen by that vendor.
Have room for growth by upgrading your environment to achieve less than %50 bandwidth on the current network utilisation on the new device and less than %40 CPU usage.
software-based boxes, like Cisco ISR, Juniper SRX branch or firewalls.
Usually you are presented with throughput in Mbps (M-bits/sec) and Mpps (M-packets/sec).
But they, especially pps are also idealized to a scenario of vendor's definition of 'typical', the scenario has much less affect in switch-like devices (Cisco catalyst, Juniper ex, Force10, Brocade) as they tend to run in constant-time ASIC type devices for lookup.
Agree with the above statements, also know that every vendor fudges their stats a little bit.
To add to good answers given by @generalnetworkerror and @MikePennington
And it tends to have more effect to router-like devices (Cisco ASR9k, Juniper MX, Alcatel SR) as they tend to run NPU, which is close to normal CPU in design, and it'll take variable time to perform work.
Realistic throughput can be obtained under test conditions that use Internet Mix (IMIX) of data where both packets lengths and protocols vary.
Marketing materials usually present the numbers in the best light which is under ideal conditions of large packets with 1500 bytes in length.