I had one client, whose building burned down...the backups were never taken off site.
You could store your data for 10 years, plug the device in, and have it fail right there...not likely, but possible.
They rarely fail, but I see USB flash drives die all the time.
But one last tip: If you're going to keep it that long, you might as well put two or three copies there, just if, by chance, one dies.
Distribute geographically based upon your actual needs.
I have had clients think they had backups, but they did not test them, they had no redundancy (no multiple copies), and they failed.
It doesn't do you much good to have a backup if the media fails, or the reader fails, or you can't connect it to anything.
The good thing is that this information is very small and therefore cheap to 'immortalize'.
Punched paper tape is a little better -- so long as you don't use oiled paper tape (which disintegrates in 5-10 years) the tape is good for maybe 50 years (longer for mylar) and you can jury-rig a viable reader.
Maybe some are, along with financial info, or other highly valuable data, in which case it makes sense to keep some of that data stored somewhere very remote at a reasonable cost.
Estimates vary, but 10 years should be fine if they are stored in a cool dark area.
If you're lucky it's from a major program, like WordStar, or Lotus 1-2-3.
You have both media deterioration and "environment deterioration" to worry about.
CD or DVD will PROBABLY last 10 years, and the ability to read it will PROBABLY exist in 10 years, but I wouldn't put any money on either in 20 years.
Punched cards will last 100 years, but good luck finding a reader, or even a way to punch them.
As your archives grow, the amount of time you spend testing media increases.
If you're worried about bit-rot, keep parity data of some kind (like par2, or rar w/ recovery records, etc.
Your parents (or kids, depending on your/their ages) or siblings or other relatives in a nearby town (or the next state) may be good enough.
I believe that Amazon S3 offers 11 nines of data durability (ie 99.999999999% of data is not lost).
However, you can be notified immediately if a HD in a RAID array goes south, giving you time to recover before you have to restore from backup.
You could have a USB ROM flasher which you could just replace if it doesn't work anymore.
What would work is using a ROM and flashing it with 50 MB.
But magnetic band is very reliable and used everywhere.
If you're unlucky, it's from some software company whose products have long since been lost in the mists of time.
By the latter I mean the ability to find an operating environment that can read the data, even if the medium is sound.
They start to dissolve after a while (I have 10 year old burned CDs here... Unreadable.
I had recommended an on-line solution, but it was expensive then, and they were too cheap.
Store it on Amazon S3 in an easily-readable format (or if necessary store the specification for the format too).
Depending on the nature of the information you are storing, you may want to make this public (ie in the public domain and therefore known and shared by lots of people) or email them to yourself and trusted associates, or print them out/engrave it, etc.
Keep it as part of your live data: You don't know if that CD/Tape/HD/USB Stick/Whatever sitting on the shelf still works unless you test it regularly.
Disclaimer: I don't work for Amazon, but do store some of my personal data with them.
Never underestimate the bandwidth of a 2 TB HD sent via FedEx.
Plus you'd still have to come up with some sort or reader.
But frankly, most find that "precious" data is no longer that important after 10 years.
Keep the backup offline when not being used: That USB HD you keep plugged in all the time isn't much good if a virus wipes all your storage out, you fat finger a delete command, or a power surge blows everything that's plugged in.
If you did choose a hard drive, and your hard drive failed, the data still likely would be recoverable on the platters by a data recovery firm, but that is expensive.
Migrate data and data formats as necessary: Hunting down the hardware to connect a 30 MB MFM HD is hard enough.
Third thing is using a streamer to write the data on magnetic band.
And now, extracting the usable data from that file format.
The key is multiple copies in different locations, and to test it from time to time.
Some are fundamentally the same technology as USB drives and subject to flipped bits over time.
is probably safest, but even they are subject to shorting out from "fingers" of metal crystallizing in the gaps (though not so much when not powered).
I'd probably just write redundant copies on two-three different CD/DVD brands and go with that.
The only problem is that you need a reliable way to store the access tokens/URLs required to allow you to find/modify the data.
I would say "the most durable" is a hard drive (the mean time between failure for a quality drive is very high, which means it should last for many years, especially if not in constant use), but my choice would be to put it on a CD\DVD, which should last 10 years easily, but they can ultimately degrade eventually.
USB drives I'm fundamentally suspicious of, and there's no great assurance that USB will even exist in 10 years.
Back it up regularly: If you have a catastrophe, you want to know that you can get it all back.
(Or maybe an ancient version of PK-ZIP, in which case you're lucky.)
Have multiple backups in different places: If your house burns down, gets blown away by a tornado, or drowned in a flood, you don't want all your backups in the same house as your data.
Even Atari 2600 games which are even older still work perfect.
Someone suggested (programmable) ROM, but it depends on what type.
I've often thought that someone should offer an archival media service, based on writing to photo film (which we know how to make last 100 years), but I've never seen any such offerings (and photo film is going the way of the dodo anyway).
(The ROMs used in mass-produced games are mask-programmed and quite reliable, but it'll cost you thousands to produce just one unit that way.)
They seem to be pretty sturdy, at least as long as no magnetic discharge rips the data.
Now you've got to come up with a way to uncompress the files that are in some long lost boutique archive format.
Laser engraving on a metal surface would be good, I suppose.
:-)  Spending $$$$ to store everything in datacenters on multiple contents is probably foolish though -- if a major disaster destroys everything in a 50 mile radius of your house, were your photos that important?