Firewalls help - but don't address the fundamental issue.
What you're doing is actually a normal security best practice, so you're fine.
The attack scenario is if there's a vulnerability with a service that can be exploited without establishing full connectivity.
In which case, the attacker can easily spoof their IP and receive return traffic.
The continued popularity of firewalls suggest its continued applicability and relevance.
Consider putting any servers that need to be accessible in a DMZ (demilitarized zone) where you distrust any traffic to/from them.
You can proxy an IP, and you can hide a point of origin relatively easily, but you can't spoof an IP.
As others have said spoofing a TCP conection is not easy - but still possible.
Similar attacks with ARP spoofing allow an attacker to take over an IP by setting up a man-in-the-middle attack between the authorized IP and the firewall.
Then you can configure ACL's so that your lan can connect into the DMZ, but the DMZ can't initiate connections to the LAN.
Authentication is good but only if it is intrinsically secure - hence I'd suggest you consider a VPN.
From beyond the confines of the local subnet and router, without some sort of trusted connection between the authorized host and the attacker, IP spoofing becomes impractical.
This solves a lot of problems over what acces you want to expose remotely (only a single port for a tunnelling vpn) via whichyou can selectively and securely expose as much as you want without having to worry about the services implementing insecure protocols.
My thought originally was that IP spoofing is more useful in denial-of-service, when you don't really care about the packets getting back to the originator, but in terms of gaining elevated access, is it really that easy for an attacker to spoof his IP and have packets somehow routed back to his real address?
Many people overlook physical security since only the more determined and skilled attacker would carry out such an attack, but it is still possible and some organizations, especially smaller companies, are quite susceptible to it.
As always, use good practices with usernames/passwords.
As for what everyone else is saying, you really can't spoof an IP.
However, one important point I want to make is to point out the two different firewall types: stateful and stateless.
If you have it open to the public internet, I'd suggest moving it off of the default port to something different.
Of course, the IP needs to be static (or I need to update it whenever it changes) but my question is how reliable is this as a means of preventing attackers from accessing this system?
For example, by acting as a rogue DHCP server, an attacker may re-assign IP addresses to various devices on that subnet.
If you can't put the servers in a DMZ, consider putting a single server into a DMZ where you can connect in, and then allow connectivity from there into other servers on your network (where I work we refer to this as a jump box).
See, internet routing is done based on your IP address, so if your "from" address is fake, when the packets hit their destination and it tries to send a reply, it will send it to the from address.
If it's spoofed, well, it doesn't get to you because it will get routed elsewhere.
Such attacks are less common today, but may still exist.
Successfully launching spoofed IP attacks are quite difficult.
In the case of RDP (the most common) there is still username/password authentication, but is relying on these IP-based firewall restrictions a bad idea?
On some of my production systems that need to be accessible outside of the LAN I will sometimes add a firewall restriction at the edge to only permit traffic on, say, RDP from a specific origin IP address or block.
The only way an attacker could launch a spoofed IP attack is if they had access to your provider's network or access to the physical network between you and your provider.
Stateless firewalls, though they still provide some additional measure of control, can be more easily thwarted.
Stateful firewalls generally provide more security because of its ability to keep track of sessions.
An attacker who is on the same subnet as the authorized IP has a variety of methods that can be used to intercept and take over traffic from the designated IP.