If you're less than 50 people, you probably don't have a lot of servers, which means you may end up with some other function (print server) on your Domain Controllers at some point.
"All other things" being mainly RAM (you want as much as you can shove in there) and IO (a good IO sub-system is a must for an active SQL server).
Neither AD nor DNS are particularly CPU heavy and for the number of clients you're talking about you could easily get away with a dual-core chip, even at a lower speed than you're suggesting.
not large multi-user systems) in which case the higher speed of each core might be more beneficial than the extra cores] all other things being equal.
For the SQL server, then I would go for the quad core [unless it will only be running single queries most of the time (i.e.
I certainly wouldn't put general file sharing on a DC if at all possible, but a place to keep copies of ISO files and the like where they'll not be actively or regularly used, but will be available if you need them is always a nice thing to have.
However, a Quad-core is way overpowered for a 50-user DC.
You could probably get away with a 4-year-old single core for that machine: the load is just not that much.
You don't need that amount of storage for AD, but having it available opens up the option of having some "dumb storage" that you can use as a software dump for your admins.
For the AD/DNS server for that few users, either will more than do.
Bottom line - unless you're absolutely sure this will be a single-purpose domain controller throughout its life, go for the bigger server with the quad core processor.
MSQL will use all the cores you can throw at it pretty well, go for the quad core - oh and consider getting a dual-CPU E55xx series server for your DB, even if you just start with a single CPU today, moving to a second is so quick and cheap that you'll be able to expand you system very easily if you go that way.
So in this case I think you'll really be better off significantly lowering the specs for your domain controller and instead spending the money on your database: perhaps by upgrading it to use 10K RPM disks or adding more ram.
I realize this is not a best practice, but it happens out of necessity in small business.
Dual core for AD, Quad for SQL, just like the others said.
You may also find that you can move the DC function to a lower-powered machine and use the quad core box for something (Exchange?)