However, you have to be very careful with this as uninstalling the HUB will cause multiple attached USB devices to stop responding.
Perhaps one of your shift, alt, or ctrl keys are stuck?
Was this working with your previous version of Windows?
Once you find the Hub that your keyboard (and likely your mouse) is attached to, hook up another mouse on a different USB port (or start a remote session) and hit the Scan button.
If that doesn't work, you either have a piece of software that is limiting/reassigning the key(s) or.....your keyboard is busted.
You may also have multiple entries of "USB ROOT HUB".
Can you try a different keyboard so we can see if this is a problem with the keyboard or your machine.
It is possible if you have a keyboard with some sort of special features - the drivers are sub standard rubbish and not compatible/end up breaking things.
Apparently, group policy can be used to disable the Windows Hotkey.
If you are sure this keyboard has worked previously, it is possible it has been damaged since you last did the shortcut and did not realise.
I knew this was the case for me, since 3 keyboards all had the same condition.
At any rate, I suggest trying out another keyboard to see exactly where the problem is.
The best way to do this is to remote into your computer and manipulate it from there.
If you don't have a secondary machine, you can try using a different mouse on a completely different usb port.
This article explains this software symptom perfectly.
I was having the same issue myself and couldn't' figure it out for the life of me.
If you're still having this issue, this is a great article to check out.
Repeat that process for the other Hubs (one at a time).
Start by uninstalling the first USB ROOT HUB, if you still have mouse or keyboard functionality, go to the top of the window of device manager and hit "Scan for Hardware Changes".
If problem continues, check whether there is a physical problem with the keyboard.
If the answer is yes - please try this keyboard in a different machine to make sure the fault is not with the keyboard.
Additionally, the windows key working itself and the other keys also working that you'd use in combination were a clue.
When I uninstalled mine, I lost both mouse and keyboard at the same time, so, I used my laptop to remote in.
This will cycle the hub and reinstall the drivers for any devices attached to that hub.
If you have not had Windows on this machine before or this is the first time you have used the keyboard, it is possible that the keyboard is damaged/faulty since you got it.
I just had this problem (although, even hitting the Winkey did not bring up the Start Menu for me) and the fix was to go into Device Manager and uninstall the "USB ROOT HUB".