The new laptop yuo buy will have a copy of vista on it.
You're going to have a few issues, I'd suspect - you will probably be faced with a Windows Activation/Genuine Advantage popup because the virtual hardware will be different to your existing hardware.
The Activation will come up so, but you will get it reaktivated by just calling MS and telling the Story.
You can then ghost the machine, fix the driver problems and call Microsoft to reactiviate.
Vista and 7 are more forgiving about booting in different hardware configurations, but XP - not so much.
If your CPU and chipset are roughly similar, you should be able to image your installation and whatnot from another computer.
Even if you ghosted the machine onto a new machine, you're going to get that problem, though.
In which case you will have to buy a copy of vista, find a copy of XP, buy vmware for the mac, migrate the vm and cal microsoft for the activation.
I wouldn't recomend this as you could probably re-install the apps on a 64 bit version of vista and get better performance.
On the half dozen different times I've virtualised a real machine, I've had some kind of 'Windows thinks the hardware has changed' experience.
I've been running a Windows XP VM since I switched (back) to OSX a year ago and can't complain.
I wouldn't go the macbook option unless you are stuck with it.
You can create a bootable CD to restore your Macrium Image file to a chosen hard drive.
I have found that the Acronis TrueImage WITH Universal restore works well for migrating from one machine to another if you generate the boot image,  attach the "old" disk to your new machine, i.e.
Your XP will probably chuck a wobbly trying to boot into different hardware.
Windows XP in VMWare is quick and you even get 3D support so to me this seems like a good option.
by USB, and boot on the boot image and let it migrate.
Since you have a retail version of vista you can say you are using your downgrade rights to run the vm.
They have a 30 day trial version available for download.
You might also have better luck using the Transfer Files and Settings Wizard.
Since the Macbook Pro will probably much quicker anyway, I would suggest getting the VMWare Migration tool from VMWare which packages up your system to be run as a VM on the new Mac.
If your old machine's current configuration is that important to you, I'd consider turning it into a VM and then running that VM as a guest on your new laptop.