1.Rsync supports for copying, links, devices, owners, groups and permissions.
rsync is pretty fast as it only mirrors the difference as opposed to doing a full copy.
MySQL has tools to dump the databases - mysqldump.
Personally I use DAR to make differential backups and then rsync to transfer them to another server.
Restoring is as simple as copying the backup files back and un-suspending them (you will have a short downtime while this happens, though some VM systems can minimise the downtime if you suspend and use a snapshot filesystem).
I would go with DRBD to sync the web content and the web configs onto another server or share.
Alternatively, you could use a virtualization system to hold your web server, then backups involve suspending the VM image, and copying its files (using rsync!)
I use this to create a backup sql file that is backed up, I ignore the mysql files themselves after this, when I come to restore, I know I can restore the dumps.
These create a spare partition and all disk writes from the time the snapshot is taken transparently go to the snapshot partition, meaning your original drive remains unchanged.
However, as a general purpose backup tools it has a couple of failings (not failings in itself, its a fine file-copy tool).
Rsync is very fast, its extraordinarily versatile file copying tool.
After you have taken the backup, delete the snapshot and all changes are 'committed' to the main disk.
2.Exclude and exclude-from options similar to GNU tar
You could use 'scp' (which uses SSH) to backup the data but the better option to look into is setting up 'rsync' : Replicating Webservers
The best alternative, if you have money, is to use something like r1soft's continuous data protection, which constantly backs up changes.
The solution is reasonably simple: ensure all running services that are important flush their data to disk immediately before backup, and then ensure you take a snapshot of the disk state.
Don't forget that you can't backup your MySQL database by simply backuping /var/lib/mysql ; it will be likely be in a corrupt state.