Create a function that squares a number passed to it
Then I point them to their notes for a myriad of examples for how to declare an integer variable, or even to a previous, simpler exercise where they had to do it.
I find that by giving them this "scaffolding", I rarely have to provide an actual code solution, but will upon request.
I think this answer is a little different, please remand me if not - I provide an algorithm with my coding assignments, and I almost always have code I can point to in their notes or previous assignments that is exactly what they need to fill in the algorithm.
This gives them a greater feeling of accomplishment and also makes them less dependent upon me.
I realize this is a vague question so if I need to narrow it please just tell me.
I've been sort of debating whether or not I should include answers to the exercises or if I should provide them as a separate document.
Or if students are writing their code down on paper, it might look like this:
Just giving out a full code solution doesn't really help with the actual process of writing code, which is what you're actually teaching.
The answer to this question is not as simple as regurgitating the syntax.
I'm preparing some exercises to introduce software developers who have no experience with Scheme to the language.
If they need to read further, then what follows in the same document is the step by step algorithm, but not code.
In other words, I make them find the answer themselves.
I can't think of a less generic way to ask the question right now.
If so should I include them as a part of the document with the exercises or as a separate document?
I think it would help the students to be able to examine one approach to doing this--a reference implementation as it were.
And if the students are writing and running the code, it might continue like this:
If they get stuck in the algorithm, on, for example, a line that says:
It's a process of breaking the question down into smaller steps and taking those steps on one at a time.
Provide guides that outline the process of solving the problem.
If that's all they need to read, they can go from there.
But I do have some concerns about the students not even trying to do the exercise themselves before looking at the answers.
First I give a general description of the problem: