Note - you might also see some SSH bans going on in your fail2ban log.
Tail the fail2ban logfile: tail -f /var/log/fail2ban.log and hopefully, after a minute or two, you'll start to see something like
Save that file, then restart fail2ban: service fail2ban restart
Now you have to tell fail2ban that you want it to look for that filter.
logpath is the path to the log file you want it to search in.
bantime is the number of seconds a user is banned for.
If you can't do that bit you probably shouldn't carry on without some more help.
Your HAProxy log should be at /var/log/haproxy.log.
The important bits we want fail2ban to get hold of are the IP of the attacker and the page they are hitting.
To tell fail2ban how to do this, first we want to create a filter.
maxretry is the amount of times a user can hit the page in findtime seconds.
I called mine applogin.conf but you can call it what you like, as long as it ends in .conf.
A sample of a "bad" entry in my log looked like this:
It creates some rules for SSH automatically when it's installed, so don't panic.
You're safe from baddies (the ones that try to get to that specific page, anyway).
The part in the square brackets is just a name - use what you like.
So, in my example, if someone tries to get to www.mydomain.com/login more than six times (or maybe exactly six times, I'm not sure) in 2 minutes then they will be banned for 20 minutes.
fail2ban works by scanning your access logs, looking for a pattern you set up.
filter is the name of the file you created in /etc/fail2ban/filter.d (but without the .conf).
There's very little documentation about how to use fail2ban with HAProxy, however - so little in fact that this page is already nearing the top of a Google search for "haproxy fail2ban", so I'll detail how I did it.
If you're under heavy load it might be too big to open with Vim or Nano, so just look at the last few lines by using tail: tail -n50 /var/log/haproxy.log
Thanks to a comment by EEAA, I was able to solve this using fail2ban.
<HOST> is the point in the line from your log where the IP address appears.
Create a file in the folder /etc/fail2ban/filter.d.
If it finds that pattern X times in Y seconds, it will automatically ban that IP for Z seconds.
Make a copy of /etc/fail2ban/jail.conf (in case you mess up and need to start again), then open jail.conf and add the following lines at the bottom.
If you want to use the same regex as me, replace /login with the address the attackers are targeting on your server.