The base Raspbian install is less than 2 GB, but if you remove all the GUI stuff, you might free up 4-500 MB.
Use the CLI over GUI and then install only the packages you want for your server?
Why cant you just install a lite version of raspian with no extra software/apps.
While I fully agree with @goldilocks that being obsessive about the number of installed packages is pointless, there's one useful trick I want to share.
Knowing this, it's quite clear that uninstalling an auto package can't do you any good (I'm actually surprised aptitude allows this operation without displaying big warning signs), because you will inevitably end up removing packages you didn't plant to remove.
This will remove the package foobar (and all its dependencies which are not needed by anyone else), but only if foobar itself is not a dependency of a package you want to keep.
Unless I am missing the point or misunderstand the question, I do not understand why this method wouldnt meet your needs.
Beware that it is aimed at more advanced/knowledgeable users.
If you try the minimal build with Arch, you will likely end up with 1 - 1.5 GB anyway.
Your concern is not unusual (I use to think this way, a long time ago), but it is not particularly rational, either.
If you mean, the bare minimum to have a running system, then that wouldn't include things that make it a "server".
manual packages are the ones that have been installed to provide a particular functionality, while auto packages were installed by the package manager automatically to satisfy dependencies of manual packages.
[XXX] - package name / specified according to the situation
Actually, no: a manual package can still be required by other manual packages, so removing it directly may still result in removing something important you didn't plan to remove.
Sounds like removing manual packages is a good idea then?
There are a lot of things you can do to tailor your system to your needs, but obsessive compulsive fixation on the of number of installed packages is not one of them.
The answer is: you demote unwanted manual packages to auto, the use auto-remove to get rid of packages which are truly unnecessary:
So, if you shouldn't remove neither auto nor manual packages, how do you remove anything at all?
and there is no common decision/solution because someone needs flexibility loses functionality and someone needs system functionality loses flexibility as non-essential means "native" - that is a really high subjective-valued character
Keep in mind that just because you do not understand what the purpose of something is does not mean it does not have one.
If I update or upgrade and something is no longer needed I am still notified and asked if I want to delete.
However, if you are really dedicated to this approach, you are better off starting with Arch than Raspbian.
If you mean, just the bare minimum plus whatever you need to make it a server, this begs the question, "What kind of server?".
All packages in the system basically fall in two categories: auto and manual.
Pulling it down to some theoretical bare minimum and then adding whatever you want back in will be more trouble than just removing the things you know you do not want.
Removing packages that you are not using will not improve performance.
The only thing it will do for you is free up some space.
I have one SD card that I have used this method it uses very little space and it only has packages I install personally.