You may need to click "connect to server" on the client, to get it connected to the right place.
In your case if you want to use Converter you can build an ESXi host and use that as the target.
The server needs to run on the DESTINATION where you want the client to end up.
The client can run anywhere, and just connects to a server somewhere.
Clicking next shows that it correctly connects to my remote linux box.
Once you have the VM running successfully under ESXi you can use Converter again to move it to a VMware Workstation instance if you prefer.
To carry out a VMWare Converter conversion you need both a source and a target.
Converter (as of V4) only supports live conversion of physical Linux systems when the Target is an ESX or ESXi host.
The source can be a live physical system or an existing VM that you wish to move to a different platform.
your laptop); 2) Physical System you want to convert; 3) ESXi (Virtual Infrastructure) System installed to a USB key and booted on a separate PC and wired up to 4) another System that is exposing an NFS share.
The  target can be a VMware Infrastructure Host running ESX or ESXi or a VMWare Workstation Virtual  Machine or a Virtual Appliance, for a live P2V conversion it cannot simply be a location to drop the resulting VM files unfortunately.
There are some limitations especially for Linux Systems.
It's free and relatively simple to set up if all you want to do is use it as a conversion target.
It basically involves 4 systems: 1) System where you install the Standalone Converter (e.g.
And why can't I just convert the VM and save it on the computer that I am running the converter program on?
I went to the "convert machine" wizard, chose Powered-on machine, entered my remote machine details.
I have a remote linux server (running Debian) that I would like to turn into a VM so that I can do testing on it rather than the production server.
I am trying to get what I thought was an easy process working.
If I do have to use a vmware infrastructure destination, I am confused at what ESX is, why and how I use it.
Then the converter should be able to connect to the SOURCE machine via regular channels (ie.
When you run a live P2V conversion the agent is remotely installed on the Source system and it sends a snapshot of itself over a network connection to the target.
I think once you understand that from your laptop you initiate the process from the Converter client, select the Physical system to convert (SOURCE) and direct it to the ESXi System (DESTINATION) that has mounted the NFS share to STORE the converted (Virtual) machine it makes more sense.
The Converter User Guide is available here and has all of the details you need.
But yah, VMWare docs need to do a much better job of explaining it.
Any help with this process would be more than appreciated!
Now, on the next screen, for Destination type, it enters "WMWare Infrastructure virtual machine", and I can't change this.