-do NEVER EVER use roaming profiles if there is a chance the user will log on through a slow link (e.g.
The offline folders feature of Windows XP/Vista Pro/Business will keep things synced.
-If a user will only use one PC and offline files are for making sure docs are backed up to the server, Windows XP is fine.
Last word of advice: If yo ugo ahead with a project that involves roaming profiles/offline files or similarities; TEST TEST TEST as much as you can before making the switch.
To counter this, Microsoft has made several attempts using offline files for certain of the folders that make up a user profile, e.g.
Users love to save gigs and gigs of crap onto the desktop folder.
-desktop enviroments where computers are shared (universities and so on)
Depending on how much data is changed offline, the time to sync will increase (obviously) but it does not occur "at logon" but rather after the user logs on in the background.
The user "profile" is ALL the stuff that goes under the docs and settings / users folder: ntuser.dat, local settings, temp all that stuff.
We've resorted to having the users manually initiate Offline Files synchronizations when they are on the VPN.
I would not, under any circumstance run roaming profiles in conjunction with VPN-based access.
Another option might be to you tortoise SVN if you want a more manual approach to the document management.
Most notable of them would probably be .pst (outlook) files.
If you redirect it and use Offline Files all the desktop icons disappear when an Offline Files sync runs under Windows XP.
-If you need to backup the user's profile look into the work done by login consultants (google flex profile kit) to get some inspiration.
ntuser.dat stores the user's registry hive (all the content in HKLM) and it would be absolutely disasterous if this file became out of sync on various computers.
When using Offline Files, just remember that certain files are not cached or synced ( db sort of files).
We've had great luck with using Offline Files to provide access to redirected "My Documents" folders in just the scenario you describe.
When the users come back into the office and reconnect to the LAN logon will not be substantially affected unless they haven't been synchronizing their Offline Files while connected to the VPN (and even then, it shouldn't be too bad-- how much data are they making?
Offline Files in Windows Vista and Windows 7 is a lot better for this.
It's a dumb misfeature that's been in every release of Windows XP and it'll probably never be fixed.
-If a user shifts between several computers and needs an up-to-date replica of his/hers docs on all computers the Offline "engine" in XP is not good enough.
My recommendations are to suggest deploying 'My Documents' 'Desktop' in addition to Implementing Roaming Profiles.
On one hand, I think that a redirected "Desktop" is the "right thing" because it protects the user's data, but on the other hand it works poorly.
Just mentioning this because others have references offline files, and not knowing this can bite you in the butt in the case of backups :-)
Any type of "background" synchronization functionality has proven to be problematic, at best, for us.
Getting synchronization of those files when the user is connected to the VPN is a bit of a pain (such that a backup can hit those files) because the user will need to be sure that such a synchronization is occurring.
For sales or other departments whom have a need to access personal documents setup their home folders in ADUC user properties panel to map to a drive letter and path of the user ie.
(Users complain that connectvity is slow, syncs don't happen when they should, etc.)
You'll also want to encrypt the Offline Files cache, so read up on using EFS and, specifically, on getting recovery agent keys removed from the client computers.
They can keep their copies offline and check them in as needed, you don't really need to be to technically gifted to use it.
This will solve your issues of users having offline and remote access to their files as well as how to sync them back when they're back in the office.
Because of this, the file is locked when a user is logged on and it is not possibly to do any kind of offline files / backgrouns syncing with it, because you CAN NOT write to it interactively as long as you are logged on as that user.
\fileserver\users\%profilename% and permissions will automatically be created to restrict other users for complaince and privacy reasons.
After years of working in exactly these kind of projects, here's my "NOC LIST" for roaming/offline use, built up by trial, error, frustration and massive amounts of perspiration:
The user has to right-click / Refresh (or press F5 with the desktop window active) to get the icons back.
As another alternative for document sharing with security, Sharepoint even the free WSS is a great resource.
Offline Files in Windows XP gets very "pear shaped" when the user's "My Documents" directory grows over 2GB.