game designers, writers, sound designers, testers, UX (User Experience) designers
If you pay $75,000 for the source code license you will only have to pay 7% of the revenue + you will gain the ability to host your game yourself in your own cloud.
There are more engines as the Tourque 2d, more software to use like the Allegorythmic Substance creator for smart textures, or the 2d Illustrator.
It'll help you understand an engine pipeline and philosophy.
Artificial intelligence programmer, Sound programmer, Gameplay programmer, Scripter, UI programmer, Input programmer, Network programmer, Game tools programmer, Porting programmer, Technology programmer, Generalist, Lead game programmer
However, given the mobile revolution and the fact that you already know Javascript, I advise to learn Cocos2D-html5 or Enchant.js instead.
As for the indie game engine, depending on the enviroment you will be working with you got many options.
You should use it in order to speed-up the development process and not reinventing the wheel.
In case you need guidance, there are books like: "3d math primer for graphics and game development" and "Physics for Game Developers".
When it comes to learning I'd advice you to use the cg tutorials that are avaiable over the internet, for Blender Blendercookie.org , For anything else Digitaltutors.com - I used to learn on that website, they have thousands of hours of video tutorials on 3ds MAx/Maya/Zbrush/PhotoShop.
However, you don't need to know everything to start.
3- A game engine is a cohesive set of tools (editors, libraries, APIs) to make games given a fixed pipeline.
Use the editor and compiler you're already used to and try to install and import the libraries with that in mind (or learn the most used IDE for that language/platform).
It uses HeroScript, based on C++, for the 3d graphic pipeline you must use Autodesk 3DSMax/Maya as nothing else is supported.
Clanlib is an excellent choice for C++ coders and MonoGame for the ones who prefer C#.
But I hardly believe that anyone would be able to master everything at once, so check out what suits you most and then go deeper into the rabbits hole.
You can download a free student version from www.students.autodesk.com .
Look at careers section at EA, it is the best reference when it comes to game development jobs.
If the game starts and you start making money, they will charge yo 30% of the revenue with no additional costs and they will handle the servers.
The HeroEngine gives you many built in features, such as the facegen, speedtree (used in Avatar movie)
If you want to go "solo/indie" you will have to know a bit of everything; kind off like the game director who needs to know the role of every team member.
XNA, Unity, Blender Game Engine, Unreal Engine, HeroEngine.
This engine gives you a complete Game Development kit with terrain editors, built in AI and so on.
You should know that this is hard coding, which you already know.
I posted the overall stuff you might need to know to find yourself around the game creation process.
GUI Artists, concept artists, general 2d artists, 3d artists, 3d sculpters, 3d animators,
2- It's your choice depending on the language and platform you're aiming.
After that you are supposed to split 25% of the revenue.
There are several paths you can take in order to make your own PC games.
For start I'd recommend Blender, due to the fact that it is light (120mb~~) and opensource.
Whether it is the gamedesign, story/code writing or art design - You have to choose
Those are just a few general roles, that split into smaller bits, such as the combat programmer who is a specialised gameplay programmer.
business, each role splits at least into a dozen, if you want to work at some company as a game developer here are some roles you can pick:
I don't think that there is a better website, the only con I found about it is the fact that it costs $45 a month.
After having a little mastery you can move onto Unity3D or UDK.
If you would like to create 3D games you have to know about 3d modelling: You must know how to use 3d creation tools, what formats are there etc.
Fair if you consider the ammount of work they have done in the engine creation process, tens of AAA game titles used the Unreal Engine, Mass Effect 3, Bioschock Infinite, Unreal Tournaments (...) and more.
It is the perfect engine when it comes to MMO Develpment.
The best way to use it is reading/watching tutorials and books.
You can use it Commercialy, you keep any money you earn below ~$52,000.
Those weight a bit more (3.2gb~) but have all the functions a 3d artist needs, they are supported by most game engines when it comes to 3d asset pipeline.
You need to know C#, Javascript, or UnityScript in order to make games with it.
If you already know C++ and a little C# the best is to leverage on APIs and frameworks.
You can also use the Gimp, which is an opensource program that has probably everything you might need to make your game.
//Keep in mind that if you would like to use Autodesk student software for commercial purposes you are not allowed to do that, and you will have to get a copy for about $4000 to be "legit".
In order to work with it, you have to buy a work station for at least ($100/year) or 25 CCU workstation for ($400/life time).
For a start I'd tinker around the Audacity, which is basic sound editor.
There are mathematical subjects like trigonometry and algebra that are really useful and necessary when developing games (specially 3D ones).
You do not have to handle the server architecture; everything is done in the Herocloud.
A little background on elementary physics is a good plus.
It utilises its own script language called the UnrealScript, which is a C++ based language
I advise to use APIs, frameworks or engines instead of making a whole game from scratch.