For instance, only route devices with an IP in the range 192.168.1.200-192.168.1.250 through the VPN.
Then, configure a static IP range for those devices in DHCP.
It would also require a tweak to the VPN settings.
The only way to do this is to put all the devices on the same network.
(2) Connect the LAN Interface of the Netgear with the LAN Interface of the TPG router.
But, it’s complicated and I think it is really unlikely either router you have supports that.
Instead, connect all the devices to the same router and establish the VPN on that router.
Assuming you don’t want to replace any of your equipment...
Build a bridge between the two inner routers without NAT.
Depending on the router this may not be something you can do with default firmware, however it is doable using dd-wrt if you flash your router with that.
There is no reason to use two routers to put some devices on a VPN.
(1) Ensure all devices in the network behind the TPG have static IP's and disable its DHCP server.
You’ve placed a lot of restrictions on what you want and some of it is just NOT possible.
Especially if your goal is to allow all the devices to communicate.
With that said, to get where you want to be it will require a significant change to your network.
This will have the effect of allowing you to provide statically use a 10.x IP address to push traffic across the VPN, or DHCP or a 192.168 address for regular Internet.
This would likely require another router because most SOHO devices do not allow you to take a LAN port and have it act as another WAN port.
One port on the router would be for one network, the other port would be the other network, then you’d have a port for WAN.
Maybe if you can install an alternative firmware your options would be better.
Because it looks like you are using home routers, your options are severely restricted.
You may be able to find an old SOHO device that you can flash with a custom firmware and basically use it to just route traffic without any bells-and-whistles (e.g.
There may be more then 1 way to do it, but 1 way is to
Configure your VPN settings so that only devices within a specific IP range use the VPN.
In fact, this thought process can be confusing because routers just connect different networks together, and they can all be LAN, or all WAN or any combination thereof.
Bring up a second virtual Interface on the TPG router in the 192.168.1.x range.
If you are trying to stay as close as possible to the current physical layout, then you need one-to-one NAT where each device on both networks is given a unique IP on the 172.16.1.x network.
Set static routes on the TPG router to route 192.168.x.x to 192.168.1.1 and similarly set static routes on the Netgear router to route 10.x.x.x to 192.168.1.NEWIP
The best way to do this is with a single, more capable router that supports multiple interfaces.
You want broadcast packets to traverse the two networks.
This is probably your best bet using what you currently have.
I imagine it will, as deciding what traffic is encrypted is part of any VPN setup.
Setup routing between the two networks, NAT all packets destined to WAN, and route all traffic from one network through the VPN.
I've somewhat cavalierly suggested adding a second interface on the TPG router.