Is up to you to decide how much space you need for extra programs and data.
A clean installation of Ubuntu 9.10 requires an odd 2.5 GB on disk.
will be dumped on disk, so you can live happy with a swap partition = RAM size.
(If you're interested in when it will hav this, keep an eye on things like btrfs and tux3, and also possibly zfs-fuse.)
I don't see a particular reason to have a separate boot partition, unless you're doing encryption or something like that.
As with all my systems I separate the OS from the data.
In the past, I've done both separate home setups and "one big filesystem" setups.
If you have one big partition, you never have to adjust your partitions to deal with mis-allocated disk space, but if you want to install a new OS and keep your home directory, you need some extra space lying around (or you need to do some creative repartitioning and bind mounting).
and all the Data (in RAID 1 preferably) is still there.
The ramzswap device is a nifty feature called compcache that is apparently included in Ubuntu's stock kernel.
If you have neither a special memory-intensive task in mind nor a serious shortage of disk space, I would accept the default size for the swap partition.
The installer usually has a pretty good idea about what is needed, and works it out just fine.
If I stuff up the OS then I can just reimage or reinstall
Speaking of the /swap partition:2GB of installed RAM make very unlikely that you ever need a swap space, except when you will put your PC in suspend / sleep mode.
I've found that 1.5x RAM size is a good swap size.
IMHO you don't need to have /boot and /home as separate partitions.
Ultimately, I've chosen to have a separate home partition, and I've made sure to use only fully resizable (both shrinkable and growable) filesystems (ext4), so that if I ever need to change my disk allocation, I can just boot a live CD and move partitions around without having to copy to and from a removable disk.
You can easily install GRUB on the MBR to have a dual-boot machine and you can create a single partition (mounted as /) for both system files and users home directories.
On the other hand, with separate partitions, keeping your home through upgrades and OS switches is easy, but you run the risk of running out of disk space on one partition with lots of room on others.
A swap partition might be OK if your machine is low on RAM (2GB is on the edge) and/or you anticipate heavily using the machine.
I'm sure that there are many interesting reasons for having separate partitions, but I've found it easiest (and more flexible) to just create / and nothing else.
Ultimately, the best long-term solution is probably something like ZFS, which assimilates all disk space and allows you to dynamically allocate it by creating filesystems out of the pool.
Unless you exactly know what you're doing and have some real reason to do that, splitting your filesystems into multiple places does not make much more sense than a all-in-one-place approach for the typical home use.
I can't really say that either approach is more flexible than the other, because they have different flexibilities.
If you don't care about hibernating or you are very enterprising and don't mind some hacking to make hibernation work, you can forgo the swap partition entirely and use a swap file.