If you are not an ISP, you want to force your clients to authenticate (see SASL authentication for Sendmail) or allow specific IP which you know are good.
And, just so you know, the "my password was compromised" excused is one of the #1 reasons spammers will give you to try to continue using your services!
This software looks at your logs and will flag when a threshold is met.
Having caught a few accounts that do this (they were paying customers) I pulled out the TOS and it's anti-spam clause and terminated them.
These days, it seems like the proper protocol is to force users to use their ISP's outgoing email server to send any messages.
If the spamming continues, try to see which user is sending email and disable their account.
If you are going to have customers using your server to send emails, it is very important to scan the outgoing messages just as you would the incoming ones to ensure they are legitimate.
Big ISPs only allow the IPs of their clients to send email via their mail servers.
Simple: we scan both inbound and outbound email with the same spam/antivirus ruleset(s), no exceptions.
My question is where is the spam coming from that it's going through your webmail interface?
Make sure you double check to ensure your customer is legitimate.
Most users don't send email in volumes that constitute spam proportions without triggering a few alarm bells.
In your case, it would just have alerted you that their account was sending spam and then you could have them change their password.
We do this to protect our customers and vendors for the very same reason that you are currently being blacklisted in spamhaus - because it makes your email into a business liability if something goes wrong.
You need to have password authentication enabled but you have that as well.
Webmail is a web interface used to send emails, we agree on that ?
First of all, make sure that you are required to have an outgoing relay server.
Can/do you filter outgoing mail, if so you could set a filter for obvious outbound spam?
In the servers that I run, I have it set to alert me if any more than 100 messages are sent in more than 5 minutes.
The penalties of having your server blacklisted are just too great.
I advise you to remove your webmail asap because someone is most likely using some sort of vulnerability in your webmail software.
Some ISPs even block outgoing connections on port 25 for this very reason.
Check if someone hasn't inserted a malicious web page that sends out email.
Are you only allowing email to be sent by your customer via the webmail interface if they're not inside one of your own network blocks?
If so, delete it asap and seriously reconsider reinstalling your server.
In your situation it sounds like the webmail portion is what was compromised.
I would recommend a software package such as CSF/LFD (Config Server Security and Firewall/Login Failure Daemon).
Are you throttling the amount of mail that can be transferred from a particular user?
If a spammer wants to throttle to get around this limit they could, but there are plenty of other servers out there with weaker protocols in place.
Are you allowing simple passwords that are easily cracked?