We do not tlk of people, we mostly talk of bots scanning IP addresses at random.
I would recommend auto-generating an entire file and using an Include statement in your Apache config or appending it to your iptables config and then restarting Apache or iptables.
All of the above options involve modifying config files and restarting services.
This script will give you a list of "likely suspects" from which you can start narrowing down the real culprits.
Run it from a cron job and use the output in the next step.
The best option is not to get 4chan ticked at you.
The next thing I would do is to start assigning scores, a bit like the way SpamAssassin scores spam emails, to IP addresses based on the requests that it has made.
There are two stages to dealing with automated bots:
If you have any kind of moderately popular website, the numbers of bots will make it impractical to do this manually.
You will need an automated response to the automated bots.
grep "File does not exist:" /var/log/httpd/error_log | cut -d' ' -f1 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n | tail
You my also us iptables rate limit option to slow down DOS attacks on the webserver itself.
Make sure you build a failsafe into the script or you have another method of accessing it such as a console port or a KVM.
If you are more concerned about port scanners looking for MySQL exposed to the internet, then a firewall and ignoring them is the best bet.)
Once you have scored each IP address, find a score threshold that all the bots are higher than and all your real users are lower than and add all the IP addresses that are higher to a list to do something about.
There's a good chance that a vulnerability scanning bot will produce a lot of 404s (I'm presuming you're talking about web application vulnerabilities and not SSH or Apache vulnerabilities.
Best approach is to stop it before it reaches the web server.
so you might want to start by creating a script that scans your Apache error log for 404 errors and groups the results by IP address.
Of course, attackers can adapt to a certain extent to evade your detection, but the chances are good that they will not do this to you until you become a much higher value target.
For instance, certain strings crop up a lot in automated attacks.
Will give you the top 10 highest 404-requesting IP addresses.
Any decent firewall will provide the protection you're looking for by responding to a port scan by simply dropping all packets coming from that source and this does not require or generate "millions of entries", as suggested elsewhere.
You also need to look at some of the actual requests from the access log to verify that these really are attempts to probe for vulnerabilities.
Ensure that your server is secure, and they'll leave you alone.
I have used PSAD on a firewall in the past with good results.
Any of these (and I'm sure you will find your own strings) should increase the score of an IP address.
Just make sure your server is safe and live with it.
Now we get to the second stage: deciding what to do about them.
Be very careful with iptables, it's easy to lock yourself or your users out of your box.
The next worm will ad millions of entries to your tables.
While that could be done using a firewal on the web server, I believe the two functions are specialised enough that they should be independent.