As the gateways have fixed IP addresses I simply added a static route in the VPN interface for the specific sql gw.
You can try setting up a VPN server with NAT on your VM, allow the VM IP address on Azure SQL, and then your developers will connect to the VPN server on the VM.
However - I can't connect using SQL Server Management Studio from my desktop machine, even when I'm connected via the VPN.
We have a number of remote developers (all on dynamic IPs) who will need to access the servers and I don't want the overhead of managing these firewall rules.
For example if you get and ip address range from the VPN of 192.168.1.0/24 and you need to connect to a SQL in AustraliaEast region, execute the following commands:
I have just received a response from Azure Support on this issue (03/03/2018) and they have confirmed that what I'm trying to achieve isn't currently possible.
It is currently working for me for AustraliaEast and SouthEastAsia regions
The same can be done in powershell with Add-VpnConnectionRoute, it will add a static route.
I have verified that I can connect to the SQL Server from a copy of SQL Server Management Studio installed on the Virtual Machine.
Azure SQL uses gateways to figure it out which clusters the client wants to connect: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sql-database/sql-database-connectivity-architecture.
I have setup an Azure SQL Server with an Elastic Pool into which I have created a Test database.
I have set "Allow access to Azure services" to "OFF".
The NAT will trick Azure SQL to think that the clients are the VM.
I'd like to be able to do this without adding my client IP directly to the firewall.
I have also added both of my Virtual Networks' subnets to the SQL Server's firewall settings and enabled the "Microsoft.Sql" endpoint.
I'd like to restrict and control access to the SQL Server as far as possible.
The Virtual Network has 2 subnets - one for the GatewaySubnet and another into which I have placed a Windows Virtual Machine.
I have successfully configured Remote Desktop access to the VM and have verified that I can only connect to Remote Desktop by using the server's internal IP when I am connected to the VPN (I have also disallowed RDP access via the external IP - but that's not relevant to my question).
I have also setup an Azure Virtual Network and a Point-to-Site VPN.
This is more workaround rather than using the VPN gateway.