If you just need to know your internet link usage, at router level you can use an SNMP application to monitor your WAN port (such as Nagios).
You cannot monitor it by installing a software on the client side, because you will monitor the LAN traffic also.
we are using wifi and LAN connection using 3 routers.
Luckily for you, TCP/IP is not operating system dependent!
can i find a monitoring application which supports both win7 and ubuntu.
my office systems have mostly ubuntu 12.04/14.04 and some windows 7 pcs.
This stuff is not super advanced networking knowledge, it's like day 1, first class, should be totally obvious to anyone with the words 'network admin' in their job title.
If that were the case, the world of computers and networking would be a horrible mess of protocols that cant talk to eachother and the internet never would have taken off like it has.
Now, when you say "only has linux support", what that means is the software is linux based, but any networking monitoring tool can monitor traffic from Windows, Linux, Mac, FreeBSD, Solaris, or any operating system that communicates using the TCP/IP stack.
But if you need to know how much of your internet link each user is consuming you will need a proxy or firewall.
That is why it has been adopted as the defacto standard for communication between two networked devices.
my network admin wants to know the ways we can monitor internet usage by employees.
BTW - the Network Security Toolkit contains both ntop and ntopng as well as just about every network monitoring tool i've ever heard of in a single easy to use linux distro, so I would check that one out first if I were you.
It's not like you need a windows based network monitor for your windows machines, and a linux based one for your ubuntu machines.
While I do agree with the comments that have been left, you can do this with a tool such as ntop (http://www.ntop.org/), ntopng (http://www.ntop.org/products/ntop/), or go with a linux distro such as the Network Security Toolkit (http://www.networksecuritytoolkit.org/nst/index.html) - all of which are free!
or at router level is there any way to configure such monitoring?
While you could totally go with pfSense or SonicWall, I would start off with some of the great free software out there to see if you can figure out the situation first (well, pfSense is free, SonicWall is not however) without having to spend $$$$ on something.
What is slightly concerning is why is your network admin asking other people for suggestions on how to do what he should already know?
is there any application to install in every system?