This of course is the exact opposite of what a laptop is optimized for.
Cooling enhancement(s) will improve your overall performance on a Laptop.
For example, I can have Firefox open with videos streaming, a game open on another screen and a few Excel sheets open on another screen and I won't see a drop in performance in any of the programs.
I have heard that laptops with similar specs as a PC might not perform as well since it slows down if the temperature gets too high, but should it be this big of a difference given the above specs?
This ends up in a stark reality: Laptop GPUs can not match their desktop counterparts for power reasons, even if marketing departments give them a model number designed to spread the illusion that they can.
Even if I only have the game open on the laptop, it has less FPS on average and there are times when the FPS drops to around 10-30 (plugged in with full battery), whereas my PC's FPS rarely ever drops below 50.
However, I noticed that games run much smoother on the PC, even with multiple windows/programs open.
I did notice that the laptop had much shorter loading screens in games (maybe because it's on SSD), but that's about it.
I was under the impression that the laptop would be better at gaming and multi-tasking since it seems to have a better GPU and CPU.
Also, the games I'm playing are usually Path of Exile or StarCraft 2 with both set to low-med graphics.
In every gaming-related PC (be it desktop or laptop) the GPU is the biggest consumer of power.
A good laptop power supply will give about 190 Watts of power, but a gaming GPU in a desktop PC will easily use up 200 Watts (or even significantly more) on its own, with the CPU (5o Watts or possibly much more) and other components not accounted for.
If I do the same on the laptop, the videos in my browser often start to get choppy and the framerates on my game drops noticeably as well (around 10-20 fps difference).
Would it be worth it to buy one of those laptop cooling pads?
Attempting to compare PC CPU to Laptop CPU is much the same as comparing an automobile to a boat.
In addition to that, dissipating those 190 Watts (which essentially all end up as heat) from a laptop is a dark art in its own right - just ask e.g.
Laptops "ramp up/down", and as a result, there are lags.
As to being a better CPU that is largely subjective.
So ultimately you will want to choose a CPU that better caters to the areas of performance you're looking for -- video, audio, (cache) bandwidth, "lanes", etc.
Because, as you noted above, the CPU(s) are throttled when hot.
Truth is, an i5 may actually turn out to be a better choice than an i7 depending upon your needs.