These services are great especially for those who are not too concerned with privacy and who do not have the technical skills to manage a home server.
and Webmail package (Squirrelmail, AtMail, Roundcube...take your pick) You have an aggregation service - albeit you have to do a bit of setting up!
It seems like there is an influx of email aggregation web sites that work similar to GMail in the way that they can aggregate emails similar to a traditional Desktop email reader application but that it is all done on the web (Sorry, I refuse to use the buzzword cloud here).
There's also a strong community you can turn to for support - David's also very responsive in answering queries.
My guess is that such a product would be perfect for regular users who may have bought into the Windows Home Server or for more technical users that generally have either a full server or a desktop which can be designated at home as a server for running such software.
I'm interested in any solutions you may be aware of regardless of OS or technology but I would prefer if the solution had a nice web based front and also the ability to aggregate email from some non-pop3 sources.
I've been keeping my eye out for such a product but I haven't found anything reasonable yet.
You can learn more about it at (and download it from) http://www.pmail.com/overviews/ovw_mercwin.htm
A powerful mail server that includes this capability is David Harris's Mercury/32 (for 32-bit Win systems).
For the rest of us it seems that there should be a product around that basically offers the capabilities but can be installed on your own server so that your server acts much like a web-based email reader and so that all data collected is pulled off off the public servers as quickly as possible and then only retained on your private server.
David is a pioneer in internet email and his tools are extremely robust.
so you can put any web-based mail front-end or mail client you like.
There's a long-standing Linux-based app called fetchmail that can pull email from other servers; I have used it successfully to amalgamate mail from various GoogleMail accounts and elsewhere.
It's a full-fledged mail server (supporting POP, SMTP, IMAP, mailing lists, etc.)