Ori and the Blind Forest does something similar in its Ginso Tree level.
For me, in that game it serves the purpose of allowing my brain to reset for the next attempt.
doesn't have a restart button, it just assumes you want to restart until you quit.
The result is that deaths do not break the flow of the game, and despite them the whole level feels seamless.
This builds both time played and holds attention to the game for short periods of time to pad the playtime and hold interest.
If you spend a lot of time on a game you become invested.
If there's no pause that separates one game try from next, the game might feel never-ending and burn out the player quickly.
This button is not used for anything else during the game, so as soon as you die you can instant restart if you want.
This 3-5 seconds isn't enough for you to quit or to put it down and also forces you to wait before quitting.
Generally, only the largest of AAA studios hire professional expertise for tuning this level of a games psychological impact.
There are some exceptions: anything from the gambling industry and anecdotally, I've heard that some mid-tier mobile developers tinker with this sort of thing (sometimes via AB-testing).
Perhaps there's a psychological effect in making the player wait before they can play again — like building the craving part of a habit?
In games like Super Hexagon or even Everwing, there's a very brief but noticeable delay from losing to starting over: waiting for the restart button to appear, pressing it, etc...
Otherwise, you go to the stats page with the "exit to main menu" and "restart" options.
Often, studios face enough challenges just getting a game to release stage.
I often suspected this in Everwing, because that game's hardly shy about its avaricious nature.
Or perhaps a lack of this delay is to keep the flow going, so to speak?
In the event that designer / developer is creating an intentional delay, it's most typically based on 'feel' &/or play testing feedback.
Geometry Wars 3 has a Quick Restart button that is only visible for a second or two during the initial Game Over screen.
Playing again is the reward at the end of a 3-5 second timeout.
Things causing obvious & correctable friction (bugs, poor controls, framerate) usually receive priority.
If you're interested in the psychology aspect of this, you might try looking up things related to athletics, attention & performance to repeated tasks (sometimes experiments use games to simulate other activities) and psychological refractory periods.
While it's possible that some delays are deliberately crafted for the reasons you've described, I suspect that in general, they are simply the result of the time it takes the application to perform any reset related activities: loading textures & assets, clearing buffers, reading & writing to save game files and so forth.
It has very fast restarts, no button or anything, and deaths do not restart the music that's playing in the BG.
In a game that doesn't require touch input in any particular place, showing the "new game" button immediately runs the risk of the user starting a new game when they did not mean to.
Thus, if players say it loads to slow or the designer notices that players are recklessly repeating mistakes, they may attempt to decrease or increase reset times accordingly.