The data is still there, but our librarian sees no point in throwing out a book from a location till its filled.
The Windows.old folder is only created by the Windows installer (Media Creation Tool) when upgrading.
The Windows.old on your computer NOW contains only your NEW installation of Windows 7 (after the mess-up).
I'm sorry, but if you don't have a backup of your old system I don't think your old files can be recovered.
You also have an index telling you where a book is.
One does not simply expect data to be recoverable.
Your data is now a metaphorical pile of ash, and there's no way to recover it.
Now, this librarian is not really lazy cause you have thousands of books getting shelved, or set on fire (its a warm library).
If you'd set the old drive aside immediately, and attempted a recovery (professional or otherwise), you might have been able to restore your data.
When that cluster is used, the old data is cleared, and the librarian feeds the old book into the furnace so its warm.
Sometimes they even get moved around and oh, its a heck of a lot of work, and you might wear out your library.
Since Windows XP wasn't installed from the CD/ISO/Installer, and that the system was reformatted, there is no Windows.old folder containing your OLD Windows 7 (with all the files).
You can go back to 7 as long as the windows.old hasn't been corrupted somehow and if it's not been 30 days.
On a modern drive, a single overwrite will result in the data that was in a 'sector' to be irrecoverable.
Over a few months, most of the clusters that your old windows install was on would probably have been used.
You have books (sectors) with writing in them (data).
In a best case scenario, you might have been able to immediately recover the old partition if you had done a quick delete (and torn up the index card).
A reinstall would have messed things up a little but I've done a recovery of a OS drive immediately after I accidentally formatted it
In most cases recovery is possible because the data is still there, the drive just marks it as being 'empty'.
I often use the analogy of the library when talking about data recovery.
When you do a 'quick' format or a recoverable delete, the cluster is marked as being empty.
It does not recover the OLD Windows 7 (with all the files).
@insane: Your method only rerolls the computer back to his NEW Windows 7 installation.