However, you'll probably have to buy SCSI and they more expensive, but then you'll be saving on the server cost by going second hand.
I built a similar file server that need to meet your requirements.
We set one up that runs with up to 25 concurrent users.
I used consumer grade hardware, in RAID 1 750GB hard disks.
While buying a SOHO server would be advisable, if your budget can not afford it, you could conceivably build a small server as redundant unit, and replace the power supply in the current file server.
I don't know if you are looking for brands, but i found that HP prolient server line tends to be pretty good and inexpensive.
More copies is always better than more expensive hardware as far as data safety is concerned.
What you might like to consider is a second hand server.
It is highly advisable to start a back up process and stick with it.
It doesn't sound like you have that much money available, and if you can save some that would be an important consideration right?
To cut costs i chose to use consumer line drives and placed them in trays form a 3rd party, they have a longer seek time, but since speed isn't a top concern, it should be fine.
With just 10 users it's reasonably speedy as well.
You need enterprise-grade drives without these onboard error-recovery systems (as they're assumed to be handled by the RAID controller in enterprise deployments).
In my old workplace some had been going 6 years and have only just been pulled out.
This might sound crazy but actually a lot of server hardware can run for many years.
some are even still covered by the original warranty.
Power consumption is must be considered for RAID configuration; I use the 120% approach, buying a power supply that will support 120% of the wattage required for ALL the devices that could be attached to it...
It only has 4GB or RAM and runs well with terminal services.
10 mins ago I posted a response where the problem is quite likely the same issue you're seeing - Consumer-grade hard drives have onboard error-recovery systems which can cause those drives to drop out of an active raid-array, as it stops responding for too long (and the raid controller assumes it's dead).
There are companies that specialize in ex lease equipment for sale and offer warranties.
As to your question of where to go next - Based on the above as you can probably gather, I'm very much in favour of utilising business-specced hardware in business scenarios, because consumer-grade hardware often causes unexpected problems with reliability and performance.
What usually wears out first with servers, is the hard drives.
Just make sure you get to check the server over properly first and get as much RAM for it as you can afford.
You can get these server chassis with board and minimum memory pretty cheap (999-1200) and add parts for not to much more (i think my total for the biggest was 1.7-1.8k).
I have built a few small workgroup servers on their g5 line.