All the traffic will be flowing, so for you to "account" the all of it;
Just to give you some real numbers, I've succesfully used PMACCT on a server with a XEON X3350; 4GB of RAM; 4 broadcom GigaEth interfaces; nearly 70 VLANs configured on eth0 and pmacct listening on all of them; +/- 300GB of various IP traffic routed on a daily basis; PMACCT generating accounting EVERY_MINUTE, for EVERY_VLAN, for EVERY tuple (src_mac, dst_mac, src_ip, dst_ip, src_port, dst_port); +/- 60.000.000 accounting records per day.
I am currently using Icinga and Cacti to monitor machines and the network respectively.
All of this, without any issue (but writing on text-files, not in MySQL).
IF such a machine is available, THEN I'd add to the set of software to install on it:
I only know of Paesler and Solar Winds, but anything non open source is out of the question for now.
Anyway, I'm quite confident that you need ALSO asynchronous data: I'm sure you want also to be able to check something like: "who were the hosts/MACs that generated/consumed most of the traffic, yesterday?
it can easily keep track of traffic flowing along eth0 in a mysql table, so for you to easily check what happened on your network with a common/simple SQL-query.
To solve your problem, you've two very limiting conditions:
the interface is "owned" by some equipment you can manage.
Visit the program's webpage, there are a lot of screenshots of it
As clearly stated, both tools above provides good REAL-TIME data (as you asked in your question).
On the other end as you want REAL_TIME_MONITORING and PER-PORT-TRAFFIC-ACCOUNTING you're mostly forced to have at least one point (one network interface) where:
In smaller environments, anyway, there are no problems in writing directly to MySQL.
", probably drilling down such data back to a single IP/MAC/PORT, and down to a granularity of.... 1 minute.
this program can monitor traffic by port 10-Strike Bandwidth Monitor
What I have done in such situations is to REPLACE the existing appliance (in your case: Zeroshell; in my case various hardware appliances from various vendors) with something I can fully manage without constraints: a common linux box with at least two interfaces properly configured to route/firewall traffic.
Let's suppose this could be OK for you (...even tough I understand that could be an issue, for you, due to the initial setup-efforts).
Also on PMACCT: I have configured the ethernet switch connecting my main Internet-gateway, to "mirror" its traffic to a free port, where I've plugged an ad-hoc linux-box accounting all the Internet traffic (a 1GEth link).
While I have no big issues with this setup, I would really like to have the option to monitor network traffic BY PORT in real time.
Also, please note that thanks to PMACCT I keep track of EACH IP addresses seen on my networks, on a daily basis (in other words: I know that 10.29.19.89 have not been seen since july 16th 2014; 172.17.1.45 have never been seen [since the start of PMACCT accounting]; etc.
A final note about PMACCT: should you (or some other readers) wonder why I NOT choosed some more common NETFLOW/IPFIX probe/collector, the reason is very simple: PMACCT is the only one I've found being able to account also MAC-addresses.
another andvantage is that it displays all monitoring results into diagrams and graphs in real time