http://www.masternewmedia.org/online-meeting-and-appointment-schedulers-comparative-guide/
Indeed it probably makes a lot of sense to plan an LDAP system (or extending your current provision) to provide address book functionality.
There's lots of good ones out tere scalable up to massive levels.
Despite a nodding acquaintance with the rest of the world, MSExchange has always been modeleld on x400.
I didn't see it mentioned so I thought I'd add PostPath.
If you don't already have a suitable LDAP server, have a look at GOSA.
Of course, using open standards for server protocols mean that you can choose from lots and lots of user agents - e.g.
i suggest Open eXchange  : http://www.open-xchange.com/
Active development, lot of features, good community.
I'd recommend using an IMAP server in preference to a POP server.
Although Novell's groupwise proved just as reliable.
However IMHO they are all a complete PITA to manage and should be avoided if at all possible.
squirrelmail, Mozilla calendar (but there are many, many more).
In addition to the products mentioned by others, you might want to have a look at sogo
Serverside you need to have a Mail Transport Agent - several years ago I did some research on this and found that Sendmail and Postifx were significantly more effective at sending email compared with Qmail, Exim and others (MS Exchange was bottom of the reliability list).
Although Microsoft tend to hide this information away, it will happily talk SMTP, POP, IMAP, LDAP and iCAL.
http://support.microsoft.com/kb/291621 - iCAL stuff
Presumably you mean a client which will provide the users the functionality they have in Outlook.
Well, Outlook is probably a sensible starting point.
Something like that might make transitioning a bit easier.
Your not going to get all the answers here - you're still going to have to do some research and probably try integrating different products - but the maintenance effort will be massively reduced.
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc179232%28office.12%29.aspx - LDAP stuff
There's a Community edition and a commercial edition.
Take a look at Kolab, Zimbra and eGroupware, all of them attempt to replace Exchange.
Note that if you have multiple sites, then you should really really have LDAP based mail routing set up.
I haven't personally used them but I've heard they offer easy integration with existing Microsoft environments.
There are other implementations which based around x400 out there (Lotus Notes, and until it was discontinued, Samsung Contact).
http://www.cisco.com/web/about/ac49/ac0/ac1/ac259/postpath.html
There was an open-source project attempting to reimplement mapi as a standard API but AFAIK its not been very active lately.
The UoW one usually comes bundled in distributions but you probably need something a bit more sophisticated if you have more than 200 or so users - dovecot or courier maybe.
you could easily add web based clients for mail and calendar, e.g.