A false positive has many implications that are not all directly related to an ailment:
Think of it like the WebMD of software - everything is a sign of cancer!
For example A pregnancy test is positive, when in fact the person isn't pregnant.
Solely for the benefit of future pilgrims who might think of false positives as somehow solely a problem in radiology, I hope this comment will provide a little more general perspective.
The amount of tissue removed is more, but the kind of operation is often the same.
Medical image processing at it's current technological stage is meant to be a help for medical personell, not a substitute.
From a personal perspective, rather than a data science experience, a false positive has a higher impact on the patient's quality of live than a false negative (at least in most applications of medical image processing.
Additionally, there's always a human involved in diagnosing.
Therefore the priority of reducing false positives is generally higher.
A tool that presents false negatives, but always presents true positives, is far more useful, as a clinician doesn't need to waste time double-checking or second guessing the diagnosis.
A tool that presents a false positive (even if at a low rate) is less useful because it's not possible to trust that diagnosis, meaning every time it makes that diagnosis, it needs to be checked.
From within the field of medicine, clinicians often have a wide variety of illnesses to try to detect and diagnose, and this is a time consuming process.
It's often meant to point out lesions or changes in tissue that are so subtle that a human might overlook them.
If it doesn't, the people which aren't highlighted as being ill will receive additional tests anyway.
There's no chance a doctor would overlook an advanced stage tumor.
A false negative means that an early-stage tumor has more time to grow and develop into malicious cancer.
(This assumes that the patient does regular health screenings.)
This risk-benefit-evaluation shows that a false negative includes less risk for a patient than a false positive.
It's better to have a tool that can accurately identify even a single trait of an illness, than a tool that maybe fudges multiple traits.
If it marks someone as being ill with a specific diagnosis, job done.
In terms of medical procedures, if a tumor doesn't become inoperable before the next screening, there's no big difference between removing an early-stage tumor or one that had a little more time to grow.
False Positive Rate (FPR) also known as false alarm rate (FAR);  A large False Positive Rate can produce a poor performance of the Medical Image Detection System.
Let's look at a concrete example: tumor screening.
In all likelihood, everyone on this thread already knows that this is a problem at the core of Bayesian analysis.
A false positive is where you receive a positive result for a test, when you should have received a negative results.
Overall this process takes a long time and each subsequent screening has a higher chance to detect it, but realistically the long-term health of a patient suffers.