So you can actually do both direct connect and have a print server on the same printer.
Direct connection and a printer share serve different purpouses and thus have different properties:
This limits access while keeping the machine active for everyone, and keeps the machine "off-IT", so we can get around the restrictions on which printers are allowed, and keep IT happy - they have no responsibility for the machine, so it doesn't have to follow the standard.
It should have a web interface that you can connect to for configuration which you can usually find in the manual.
As other people have stated, yes, you can connect directly to the printer through the network.
However, there are advantages in connecting it to a print server.
So, for a smalle environment, direct connections will be most effective, but if you need advanced features, a print server will be the tool of chice.
We have a local "off-IT" printer (prints double-sided 11x17 in color - don't want everyone to use).
All of the engineering and maintenance have direct-connected to the printer for use in printing or scanning - they connect via our department wireless network which the printer is on, so as everyone has mentioned above, you can have multiple computers connected via direct connect.
A Windows print server will give you the ability to install drivers automatically to multiple OSs, give you granular controller over access, audit logs, etc, etc.
Others have answered the question well, just wanted to add a personal note:
Just make sure that the network printer has the same network address scheme as the rest of the network and that the IP address given to it doesn't conflict with any other devices (i.e.
On the very rare occasions that multiple print jobs are started simultaneously, the printer queues the jobs nicely.
In the end, its up to you to decide whether you want the advanced features a print server offers.
Yes, all computers can connect to it via the network, as long as the network printer is plugged into a router, switch, hub, etc that the other computers are also connected to.
Some of the non-department folks wanted to use it as well, so we have our managers machine act as a print server, handling rights, time restrictions, etc.