I've also previously used Zabbix as a full on monitoring system, and previous to that Cacti for trends and Nagios for alerting.
Munin is ok, but its graphs are in my experience more than a little overcomplicated.
What's your suggested tool to monitor multiple Unix (Linux and OSX specifically) based systems at the same time?
Unless you use a separate GUI, configuration is by text file.
There are various methods for collecting information from machines being monitored.
There are a lot of monitoring plugins availble (for different devices and services).
It's also got several plugins which allow it to do trend graphing (Nagiosgraph is what we use.).
Zenoss does everything you want out of the box and can work over either SSH or SNMP.
In the end however, it's the standard solution that Just Works.
If you're willing to set up SNMP, MRTG is quite good.
You should give all of these a trial run and see which one fits your use case the best.
Bigbrother can do monitoring, but I'd avoid it if at all possible.
Being based on Zope, it's a little more resource intensive to run than the others, but very easy to hack on if you know Python.
If you're not looking for trend graphing specifically, nagios is reasonably good, as recommended earlier.
All of these are free, and some are more integrated than others.
It sends alerts notification e-mails, which is how my organisation traps and responds to system problems (alerts into a ticket system).
Whichever monitoring solution you choose, I recommend collecting information from each system directly by SNMP.
Spend a little time on the front end, and your life will be a breeze later on.
The key for monitoring multiple linux/unix hosts with nagios is creating a tarball that can sit on all of them.
I need to monitor the utilization of the CPU, memory, and disks in real time and would prefer a single tool to do so.
It's quite complicated, unfortunately so requires a certain amount of work to setup.
Zenoss has the benefit of tying together a lot of things out of the box, and the option of enterprise level support.
If you're unfamiliar, it'll take a small bit of learning.