Alternatively, you may be able to run a repair - I'm not certain if a repair will get rid of your junk drivers though.
Prior to a clean install you can download a Linux Live CD (such as Ubuntu) and wander around your existing system and copy any files you want to keep to some kind of external media such as a USB stick or external hard drive.
Reinstalling doesn't take long nowadays, but as others have mentioned make sure you backup your data!
Sadly I do not know of a way to do a repair install without first booting into windows 7 (it's not as easy as xp) so make sure you back up your data first (hopefully you have another pc or the old motherboard).
I would recommend that you put your Windows 7 install disc in the drive and boot your system from that.
During installation, it detects the hardware and enables the drivers needed for that harware.
The easiest option if it's available to you is to just reinstall.
You will at least then be able to boot into windows and install the proper third party drivers.
This is a great example of why it is never a good practice to just swap the hard drive when replacing essential components such as the motherboard/processor.
You might then have to manually uninstall drivers which you think may be causing the issue, it's not the nicest option though.
If the motherboards are too different then there is often nothing you can do beyond performing a clean install.
If you are lucky you are victim of this issue - which is one of these drivers cases, but one can can be fixed by either switching the SATA mode in your BIOS settings or booting your windows on different hardware and enabling the driver.
Swapping motherboards and hoping that the operating system will continue to work is often a fruitless task.
If you can't reinstall or repair, can you load the computer in safe mode?
Reinstall Windows and it will automatically detect your hardware and use built in drivers.
The easiest and best option, in my opinion, is to format and start over - you don't want to have a PC running with drivers for the wrong hardware/motherboard.
In general, Windows does not enable "unnecessary" drivers.
Sometimes, if the motherboards are not too different, it will work and you will be able to just install drivers and carry on.
It sounds like you have old drivers installed on your hard drive which you now have plugged in to a new motherboard which has different hardware and the drivers are causing your machine to blue screen and restart.