if there is anyone else using a computer (other user account), it could be the configuration or registry or something got corrupted.
Search for anything that is related to ask toolbar (and also any other suspicions file name) and remove it.
Open your windows Explorer and search again for any left file or folder containing ask search or ask toolbar in their name.
Open Control Panel and search for any program or file with the same name and remove them.
How can I install uTorrent properly without installing Ask toolbar?
I use uTorrent for long time now, and now when I start it I get installation wizard to install new 1.8.3 build 15772 version.
I'm  getting install button enabled and when I click it nothing happens, step with option to install Ask toolbar is not longer there.
So I start to install, and everything is going fine, until I get to options to install Ask toolbar.
I suggest you also read this step-by-step ask toolbar removal guide:http://www.virus-delete.com/en/guides/browser-hijacker-removal/20130814-how-to-remove-ask-search-toolbar-through-isafe-virus-removal-tool.html
So I selected option to agree and install Ask toolbar (I can remove it later), and it did successfully installed in all browser :/ but, uTorrent still don't want to install.
Is there anywhere uTorrent version that doesn't require installation?
I still have one of the first versions which is only 100K or something in my tool archive somewhere (when I heard they were bought by another company first thing I did was thoroughly backup that executable).
Again from the setting, change your homepage back to normal (that is if it has been changed)
I would check to see if the installer has any command line switches.
I'm using Vista Home Premium SP1, UAC is disabled, Kaspersky Anti-Virus 8.0, and I have admin rights in system.
I would look for a "continue on error" mode and also I would look for a install mode that leaves out the toolbar.
Go to your browsers' settings and choose add-on/extensions.
The above command should tell you if there are any command line switches if you run it from the command prompt in the correct directory.
Of course, I deselected installation of such toolbar, and clicked install button (to install uTorrent), which has that small admin/shield icon, and nothing happens.
Any workaround for uTorrent to work without installation?
try changing location of uTorrent installation folder in wizard from
It launches when you first execute utorrent.exe, but you can just skip it, and µTorrent will (should) be launched.