TL;DR: all in all, I really don't see any point in not having AD, given how trivial is to implement it (even on a large scale) and how much you gain by having it.
Depending on your size make sure you have 2 Servers, 1 primary, 1 backup, otherwise if you lose your AD server (and only have 1) you'll need to rebuild a domain, unless your backups are SOLID.
I think the real question is whether you can move your MS-centric "Windows shop" to the Cloud without AD DS
Aside from some really good answers, I'd like to reverse the question: what's the point in not having Active Directory if you are running a Microsoft shop?
You already said you are going full cloud, so a couple additional Azure VMs will not even be able to make a small dent in your budget; not even a couple Windows Server licenses for physical DCs would, given what you are already spending in online services (not to mention client Windows and Office licenses, which you still need for all your users).
Virtualize your Domain Controllers, it's not a show stopper.
Without it, you're paying for a 3rd party application or really really really trusting your users.
Changing the physical location of your network services doesn't change your requirements.
And products like LastPass are a password vault, not SSO.
AD and GPO will still handle management of workstations.
A couple of domain controllers (which may very well be VMs, thus not even requiring additional hardware)?
While exciting, any Cloud is just another outsourcing provider - a company trying to offer flexibility for your infrastructure and operations, often at lowered cost, and (hopefully) better reliability.
If you are proficient enough on Microsoft products to be able to find and implement workarounds for not having AD, you are definitely skilled enough to actually use it.
Any junior Windows admin can manage a small AD, and all senior ones can manage a large one.
All of the hosted solutions you mentioned support AD Federation, and since you want SSO everywhere the only universal way of accomplishing that is going to be AD.
Sure, the Cloud is targeted at simplifying common sought out service objectives like scalability, reliability and performance - but it's still just a hosting option
If you're doing something like strictly BYOD, or distributing only stateless VMs for working, then this doesn't apply as much.
You require an Identity and Access Management platform, and Active Directory fits that need on-premise or at your hosting provider already you say?
Not having AD actually adds more complexity to your environment, because you have to find suitable alternatives for everything AD would have done out-of-the-box; having AD adds... what?
You can get around to use and manage Microsoft products without AD, but they are just designed to work with it, and native AD integration will always be better than any workaround you can throw in.
You don't "need" AD, but it will make your life easier.
If you continue to utilize the Windows platform and Microsoft middleware, the sheer level of support for Active Directory authentication in the Cloud begs for Active Directory Domain Services, even more than on-premise.
Still really keen on moving everything to the Cloud?
Active Directory is highly extensible, even with a large number of systems not directly dependent on AD DS, you can still utilize it to manage "stand-alone" infrastructure components, hosted in the Cloud or anywhere else.