There are only 2 books available on cocos2d, i think
I would recommend wandering down to your local Large Chain Bookstore (Borders, Barnes & Noble, et cetera) and see if they have a copy of any of the books you are interested in.
Amazon's "Look Inside" feature, if available for the books in question, may also allow you to do this to some extent.
its very well written and a nice introduction to the topic.
I would highly recommend you read Ray Wenderlich's excellent book on Cocos2d, "Learning Cocos2D".
And my translation of the first presentation in Russian:
That way you can peruse them for yourself and hopefully get a better idea of whether or not a particular book would be good for you and your particular learning style.
You can get a flavor of the book by reading some of the excellent tutorials and articles on Ray's site: http://www.raywenderlich.com/.
I've just finished reading it cover to cover, completely worth the price.
I did enjoy that all the game code and assets are available for download, so you can build it yourself along the way.
https://www.packtpub.com/cocos2d-games-for-iphone-0-99-beginners-guide/book
from which i recommend the second one "Learn iPhone and iPad Cocos2D Game Development".
In particular, the introduction to Box2D makes the book worthwhile, IMHO.
Direct links to useful presentations (especially for Tetrad moderator):
They cover menus, level changes, sprites, sprite sheets, behaviors, AI, physics, etc.
The Apress books have looked promising when I browsed them in stores, so that would be my secondary suggestion (the caveat being that I have not reviewed any of those books in detail and am basing this recommendation on my experience with the quality of the publisher's other material and quick flip-throughs of the books).
Autor has described very useful insights using his experience with tools and tips to make a iphone games.
In particular, Rod and Ray introduce you to game concepts in a very gentle way through incremental level design.
Personally, I'd be very cautious about buying a book that focuses on a specific API, largely because such books tend to go out of date relatively quickly and thus I don't see them to be as strong of an investment.
I would thus suggest that you take a good look at all the freely-available online reference and educational material for cocos2d and game development in general (if you have not already, of course) and see if that is suitable enough for you.
I'm a more experienced iOS developer, so reading the code samples was constructive (I didn't compile any of the example code, nor the final game "Space Viking").
All of that having been said, I'm generally a fan of the O'Rielly books, however both of their iPhone books seem relatively old at this point.