But at the end of the day this is a hard lesson in the need for company policies that govern what can and cannot be connected to a production network.
It looks like a broadcast storm or multicast storm.
In order to help you more, we would need to know how many VLANs are on your network and so forth.
There is a small price to be paid in user frustration but this is more than made up for in the fact that you will automatically have visibility and hopefully control over what gets connected and you won't have to deal with the network outages in the future.
My suggestion to see what its doing for yourself is to turn on mac-address tracking and watch what happens.
If you have SNMP monitoring on your switches, then you will get an alert.
Knowing the version of your Netgear switch would be helpful.
6 Extreme Stacks, 3 HP switches various models and several atleast 8 of these netgear gs108's
This cost our company a lot of money in downtime and replacing a few switches along with a trip to Alaska for a week to troubleshoot.
I ran into an issue with these taking our whole network down.
One person plugging one in without configuring it can take down the whole network.
On the older NetGear ProSafe switches I have used the default configuration is that STP is enabled in RSTP (rapid spanning tree) with BPDU flooded to all ports on the switch.
The netgear basically will become a network blackhole.
BTW they come with spanning tree turned off on all the ports
I found that ELRP could detect the loop so I turned that on to help prevent that from happening again.
Gs108T with no spanning tree turned on looped to itself and hooked to any switch except extreme switches with ELRP turned on will eventually take the whole network down.
At my employer (a large Fortune 500 manufacturing enterprise) our network policy is that all access ports on switches are configured with BPDUguard enabled such that when any unknown switching device is plugged into it the port becomes error disabled.
I'm looking at an older version of the ProSafe switch user manual for the GS748TS and the Spanning-Tree settings are quite granular, so you should be able to configure the switch to prevent such things from happening in the future.
The entire point of Spanning Tree is to prevent broadcast storms from blowing up your network and you have just recently observed a practical lesson in how that happens.
I had a laptop hooked up on a spanned/mirrored port and what you will see is that there are a lot of dup-acks and tcp retransmission packets going through the network for the equipment or pcs that are having issues.
When I performed this experiment to figure out why I was seeing a loop and spanning tree was not taking care of it I found to my horror all the mac addresses on the network started moving from switch to switch finally to the netgear.
Think twice before deploying them in critical environments.
These switches were chosen to replace dumb netgear switches.