Just trying to get an idea of how long we'll have to continue to wage this battle (going on a couple weeks now).
our ISP reacted immediately when it was reported to them and they filtered traffic to negate any impact it may of been having.
as mentioned above a Ddos attack varies in its length of time, normally it should not be that much of a problem if your hosting company / ISP can put measures in place to filter the traffic and block a majority of it.
Afaik, there aren't any good statistics on averages, and intensities - most attacks go unreported publicly.
If this sort of attack happens to you frequently, or goes on for more than a few days, it may be worth investing in a better equipped ISP, or, if you're high enough upstream to be responsible for your own DDoS protection, investing into better security tools and people.
As many have already mentioned your best, and probably only, bet is to have a candid discussion with your ISP, and rely on their knowledge and experience.
at the start of last year our company encountered problems from a ddos attack which lasted 2.5 days more or less, it was a low amount of traffic but enough to slow our services at first.
the block remained in place for 2 days when they then reported the traffic had stopped.
Anywhere from a couple of minutes to a pretty much constant and neverending stream of junk.
Until you can setup a system which will mitigate the attack, or when the attacker's demands are met, if there are any, but if there aren't any it will take until he gets bored.
If you've suffered a DDoS attack before - how long did it last?
I realize the answer to this question will vary, which is why I'm asking it.
The mean and median would both be in the "days" range, though often it'll run for a day or two, go away for a few days, then come back again (usually slightly different and more damaging).
Typically, depending on the tools available and skills of the administrators, you'll be offered with various tradeoffs between site accessibility to the outside world and effectiveness at filtering the DDoS, which will tend to work well enough.