This way you don't have to worry about changes in the frame of reference while the character is moving, only after.
If you choose to use clockwise/counterclockwise movement, there are a number of things you can do to make the system easier to intuit for your players.
Possibly more confusing that simply sticking with the existing "A is always counterclockwise" approach you have now.
This way the character is always on top with respect to the view when on a planet, so the left/right controls can stay consistent no matter where you land.
At short movements the reference frame stays the same, the universe doesn't move, get beyond a certain threshold the universe moves along/shifts along so the reference frame is back in the middle.
I assume that Nintendo invested quite some research in getting the game play as smooth as possible and this is what they settled upon.
It's only when you start moving again after having stopped that you are faced with a choice.
And have it so after the user presses a direction, the character will keep going that direction till they release that button.
It can get a little getting use too but nothing players haven't seen before.
I say character and planet but they had modular ship parts on the outside where you determine where they go, ie which direction the thrusters are pointed to move the ship.
After all, continuing to move in the direction you are moving in doesn't take any action at all, and when you want to reverse your movement, there's only one other key to choose.
Instead of having to identify "clockwise" or "counterclockwise", the players either move in the blue direction or the red direction.
The longer you pause, the harder it will be to pick up again based on what you were doing before.
So if the character was on the left side and the user pressed up, then the character would go clock-wise till release.
You can make it work simply by choosing arbitrarily which direction to go in, but the user may find it confusing.
So their frame of reference was at the center of their "planet".
As long as you are moving your character, it's easy to maintain what orientation your controls are in.
You might wish to "movement blur"  the universe when moving so it looks more natural and the eyes won't focus on the moving parts shifting positions.
2) Another way would like how "Lovers in dangerous space-time" approach it.
This means the "A" key would always move the character "to the left," whatever that was -- clockwise if it's on the bottom of the circle, counter-clockwise otherwise -- until the key was released.
1) How I would approach this would take sections of the planet: the top, left, right, and bottom sides (more if desirable).
I always like to look to what the bigger companies figured out, hoping they invested something in R&D for maximum comfort and playability.
One approach (often used in third-person games with stick-based movement that also have non-static cameras) is to establish the frame of reference for movement every time the input begins (in your case, when the key is pressed) and keep that frame of movement until the input terminates (the key is released).
When the character gets out of the ship, reorient the view so the character is on top of the planet, and then move the view with the character as they walk around.
By reducing pause frequency and pause lengths you can keep players from forgetting how to move.
If the character is half blue and half red, then orientation becomes easy for players to remember.
Give the character prominent distinguishable directions
Unfortunately, since you're constrained to a circle, this technique will still fall apart when the character is at or near the extreme left or right extents of the circle.
With a joystick, rather than have the frame of reference depending on the surface, they have it so the angle the joy-stick was the desired spot for "character" to stop at.
You could edit it though so it appears the planet is rotating instead so the play is always "on top".
If the character is always facing in one direction (preferably clockwise, so that movement is most intuitive while upright) it's even better, because English speakers (and anyone else with a left-to-right language) naturally tend to associate 'right' with 'forward', reinforcing the connection between the controls and the direction of movement.
I suggest you take a look at a similar concept but then in 3d: Super mario galaxy.