Alternatively no activity occurs and the patients remain as they were, untouched, as though the doc was still present.
There are few justifications to delete data from a database when disk space is so cheap.
If so then you a cascading delete would enforce referential integrity.
In SQL Server 2008, there is a Primary table which is linked to three other child tables by 1 to many relationship.
For your situation, does it make sense for the rows in the 'child' table to remain if their corresponding  'primary' rows go.
Using cascading delete is a matter of personal preference, like whether to name tables with plural names or not (Customer vs Customers).
From personal experience think carefully about the design of the database.
If you have to delete data then using stored procedures to manage this gives you more transparency and control.
This week I had to run a purge of orphaned records in a table which pointed to nowhere and was literally taking up space.
You might want to keep child rows as a record, an archive of past activity (though potentially you could write these rows to another tables specially for this purpose.
Would the data in the child table be meaningless without the parent?
One possibilty is that they get purged another is that a default value replaces the doc reference or they could be removed from the main table and placed somewhere else.
Your application can execute a stored procedure which deletes from the child then parent.
So, we are thinking of using Cascading delete in the primary table, so that all the records on the child table will be removed when record from primary table is deleted.
You don't know how the business requirements will change over time so sp's will give you more versatility.
A patient can only be a patient if they have a doctor.
Some database designs set an additional field "IsDeleted" rather than physically delete data.
I guess the answer boils down to whether or not makes sense for your situation, it depends.
A example I used to illustrate this point was the doctor/patient relation.
If the doc goes (leaves the practice) then something has to happen to the remaining patients.