The connectivity test for ActiveSync (manual server) at https://testexchangeconnectivity.com passed successfully with it set to ignore trust for SSL.
3) The server name that you need to use is simply the URL that resolves to your server, no extra paths or anything are required.
Being a default SBS installation, our Outlook Web Access is hosted at http://sbs.oursite.com/exchange/.
All I have is an empty mailbox on the phone, which shows an icon as if it is connected - but connected whatever settings I put in for the server!
1) In the root of the phone memory, there is a folder called "MailForExchange".
sbs.oursite.com is correct for Mail for Exchange, if you use http://sbs.oursite.com/exchange/ for Outlook Web Access.
4) Ports 80 & 443 need to be forwarded on your router to your server's internal IP address.
Believe it or not, the problem was simply that Mail for Exchange did not like the access point I configured for it.
I know I will be told this belongs on Superuser, but I see more related questions here than there, so...
What do I need to put in Nokia Mail for Exchange for my server name?
This is already done if you are using Outlook Web Access.
I changed it to use the "WAP Services" destination which was predefined on my handset.
I tried recreating a new destination containing only a packet data access point, and straight away it failed again.
2) You need to convert you SBS cert from a .cer file to a .der file and install it on the handset.
Another user has a Blackberry: all that you need to do is tell it your OWA address, username and password; and it just works.
I am trying to configure a user's Nokia E52 Mail for Exchange profile, but I can't seem to discover the magic combination of correct settings for the mailbox.
Here you will find log files that tell you what is actually happening, otherwise you are flying blind.
Does the server name need an http or https prefix?
Is it sbs.oursite.com, or sbs.oursite.com\exchange (like OWA), or sbs.oursite.com\oma for Outlook Mobile Access, or something else?
I've tried practically all combinations I can think of without success.
Worst of all, I do not receive any error messages.