I tried installing Debian, and it had a completely different install boot set up, but I ran into an issue with it not being able to read from the cdrom, even though I'm using a usb with YUMI to install it, which also seemed to be a common issue that I couldn't find a solution to.
The installer boot menu said to type menu in to return to that menu, but that didn't seem to do anything and it just started to install, so I'm not sure if it even took any of the options I tried.
But even if you do, we can then use standard Linux commands to circumvent the problem.
After the installation X11 is perfectly capable of configuring itself, which means it is not likely you will experience further problems.
Sometimes a few lines of text show something, but soon after I get the out of range message.
Since you are trying to install Linux for the first time, what you should do is to set the nomodeset option for the installer; you can find this option under the Other options on the screen where you are offered to choose between Install Xubuntu or Try Xubuntu without installing.
I just built my computer and I tried to install Xubuntu, but shortly after I start the install my monitor gives me the message out of range, and it doesn't allow me to finish installing it.
(I can provide additional system info if necessary)
I'm not sure if more support for graphics chipsets come with new kernel versions, but it did for my intel wifi chipset.
I also tried installing Linux Mint, and it also gave me the out of range message.
I tried installing with other options like vga=771 and a few other, but they didn't seem to make much difference.
I've seen a number of other posts about the same issue under slightly different circumstances or having solutions that don't work for me.
I also tried pressing some function keys as some solutions suggested, but all any of them seemed to do was refresh the installer boot menu.
If you do, I would try using that port instead just for the install, and then after you get it working attempt to install the additional NVIDIA drivers to get that graphics card working.
My computer is using a GTX 1070, and my monitor is an ASUS VN279Q.
I would even settle for one of the other distros I mentioned.
I tried installing the regular Ubuntu, but it did the exact same things.
I got to the installer boot menu, and I tried both the try before installing and the install options, and both start showing 4 loading dots and Xubuntu 16.04 in plain-text.
You may want to research your model of NVIDIA card more, I had some issues with my new laptop and in order to get my wireless NIC working I had to install a newer kernel version than what comes with debian in order to get it working.
This is a problem with X11 and the frequency refresh rate being (probably) larger than your monitor allows.