It could also be a hardware issue, does this happen with other OS's running (you could try a Linux Live CD and see if it still happens then).
This problems were happening on desktops that were running an Asus Motherboard with an AMD chipset, with or without additional graphics card.
It's possible this is what your graphics card is doing when you see all that flickering.
It might be your refresh rate set to a value that is not recommended for your monitor.
Not sure if it's possible for you to update the bios on your laptop, but that could be the problem.
I believe going to sleep and coming back is the responsibility of the BIOS, and where the display is involved too, the graphics card driver.
is going to make a little disturbance on the video output.
This is the least clean because every setting change on the card while it shuts down, starts up, changes resolutions, etc.
Regardless of what type of graphics driver I installed, the screen would always flicker rather randomly.
The bottom line is that the excessive flickering may be the fault of your BIOS or the card's graphics driver, and you might want to see if there are any updates for those.
I've seen issues with screen flickering and Vista before.
When waking up, the least clean way to restart the graphics card would be to reset the card and then load up every saved setting one by one.
Here's a theory: when your Vista PC goes to sleep (as opposed to hibernate or hybrid sleep), everything is still active in RAM but put into a low power standby mode.
When your graphics card goes to sleep, your BIOS and your graphics card driver are supposed to be smart about it.
If that's the case, then the wire connecting the LCD on your laptop could be going out.
Apparently, the BIOS that originally came with the mother didn't fully support Vista regardless of it saying it did.
The way the system is supposed to work is that your graphics card supports some kind of low power mode with rapid restore, and your BIOS and graphics card driver is supposed to know how to use it to wake up from the sleep state with a minimal delay and flickering.
After a while you might not notice it as much, but will when it first starts?
The only thing that helped in this case was a BIOS upgrade.
When the PC wakes up, everything comes back, and the graphics display needs to be turned back on.