If your computer need a software to start when you you start your computer it will start.
(You may need to run an application or two while looking at the performance tab just to get the CPU cranked up to a higher speed and utilization).
Then you can disable all this: AxInstSV, AJRouter, AppReadiness, ALG, AppMgmt,
Then there is a lot of services you can change to manual.
In researching my "slow CPU" problem I found many others with Windows 10 having similar problems.
I do this on all my computers fast or slow and it help somewhat for me.
Just don't make any changes that have Windows ignore the overheating- the system will begin to shut down on its own and you risk destruction of your CPU and more.
Windows do a lot of unnecessary things in the bakground that steal performans when you play or do some work.
in the new window that you see go to services and press Hide all Microsoft services.
My system now works just like it's supposed to, going to half-speed and utilization when I overwork and thus overheat the CPU but it cools quickly and returns to normal speed after any such processor intensive work.
If your CPU can't cool down enough after some processor intensive operations, Windows will keep the CPUs performance at half levels.
The "normal" description for this problem- besides all the errors caused by the CPUs slow operation- is, when looking at the performance tab in Task Manager, the CPU Utilization is less than 50% AND the CPU is running at about 50% of its Base Speed.
aspnet_state, BitLocker Drive Encryption Service, Connected Device Platform Service, Fax, InstallDriver Table Manager, Net.Tcp, XboxNetApiSvc, RemoteRegistry, Routing and Remote Access, Smart Card, Smart Card Device Enumeration Service, Smart Card Removal Policy, XblGameSave, XblAuthManager
Windows 10 apparently responds to overheat notices from the CPU and will, in fact, toggle the CPU from its rated speed and utilization to half or less, then back to normal as the CPU cools down.
Additionally, I placed Furniture Caster Cups under the rubber "feet" of my laptop in order to raise it higher off the desk and allow for more cool air to get to the underside.
To do this go again to Task Manager and then services and after that open services.
This seems to be a fine safety feature when it works properly but clogged air vents, failed fans, abundant Registry entries and too many apps running at the same time (check your bloatware) overloading the CPU can prevent a cooler operation of the CPU.
All services above is useless for a ''normal'' user.
So when you are in task manager go to startup and disable all.
In the search windows write: sysdm.cpl in the next window that come up, go to
• Press Windows key and R again and write: msconfig and press enter,
You can probably check to see if your system has this same "thermal fault" by turning off your computer for 15 minutes or so to let it cool down and when booted back up, looking at task manager- first- to see if the CPU will run at higher than 50% Utilization and Base Speed.
You can find many tips searching on the Internet for things to do to help this heat problem, so I won't go into any more here.
Windows give you a description too what the service do.
Mine- and I believe many others- was thermal related.
• Next step is to turn off services you don't need.
Anything that could prevent your CPU from cooling off should be checked.
If your CPU- now cooled off- runs at its rated speed but soon drops to the 50% levels as you monitor the performance tab in Task Manager, there is a good chance that your problem is thermal related.