Second, I doubt a higher failure rate can be can be uniquely associated to the daily-power down.
Not switching PCs off may cause overheat which decrease hardware lifetime.
So, even if this is break even now, this is a behavioral/cultural change, you need to start now so people will be doing it when the price benefits arrive, rather than suffering from a lag time.
However, I would say that the harm of turning stuff on-and-off is kind of hypothetical sounding to me:
So, in the end: Turn the machines off and save the energy.
On my Macs, almost all my applications have an auto-save feature.
Third, the relative costs will continue to diverge over time.
First, if this is a "huge office scenario", you will hopefully have warranty contracts that covers most of the lifetime of the machines.
Turning it off and on again once a day really is not a lot.
Computers have only gotten more reliable since then.
Even if you leave your computer on all the time, you still have to reboot for system updates.
I remember, in my childhood, we turned off Apple's, IBM PC's and Atari class systems a dozen times a day, for years.
You might simply need to do A/B testing to see which is better.
Desktop drives are not designed to run 24x7 and I personally experienced a significant amount of drive failures of non-raid-type drives used in 24x7 server scenarios.
If you have to assume, the safe assumptions are probably: energy costs will continue to rise over time, hardware costs will decrease over time.
Beside that: While I would agree that there is a somewhat increased possibility that hardware will die during a power cycle, I consider this to be a problem of (really) old hardware and I can't see how one cycle every working day over a course of three to five years would cause a problem except on very crappy hardware that might die anyway whenever you look at it the wrong way.
I wish I had detailed data, especially the type of numbers you want.
One major issue remains, which decides the whole game in my opinion, and this is the harddisk.
In my experience, that is the source of most of my boot-time problems.
In that case, if it breaks, it's the vendors job to repair it and you can just reap in the energy savings.
The real costs to a power-down is that you have to close up all your windows and save your work.