It can definitely tell you hotfixes/patches/system information, but it can be a bit tricky to set up.
But if you actually purchase the license separately, you have to have a lot of machines to manage before you get any decent ROI.
Take a look at OCS Inventory: http://www.ocsinventory-ng.org/ .
For patching purposes as guys previously mentioned above MS offers WSUS, which is free as well.
For inventory and assessment of your infrastructure you can use MAP toolkit, which works will almost all editions and version of Windows Desktop & Server OSs using WMI, and moreover it also can inventory HP-UX, VMWare ESX(i) and a variety of Linux distros.
Will help you with patch management, allows create separate groups, like test and prod, deployment rules etc.
Ideally if there were a way to push service packs, and hotfixes (and other software?)
Shavlik) recently on a number of clients networks, which is not free, but have grace period.
For example, at a minimum knowing the basics for all the machines out on the network such as OS version, patch level, what hotfixes they have, processor, ram, etc.
It's not too hard to setup, maybe an afternoon at most.
For both purposes Microsoft offers freely available tools:
I suspect a combination of OCS Inventory and WSUS would do everything you want.
If your environment is larger than 1,500 machines, the Microsoft System Center suite of products might be right for you.
If you are a Microsoft Partner, it is a cost effective option for a smaller company.
It does most of what you want, but be warned that the GUI is a little... rough.
Even better would be knowing more details such as peripherals.
On the other hand we've been using VMware vCenter Protect(i.e.
Perhaps, worth mentioning it can collect MS SQL/Exchange/etc specific data.
Shavlik allows not only patch management, but also offline VM patching, power management, asset inventory and etc.
What are some good ways to have patch management and systems/hardware inventory for a Windows (Server 2003 or 2008) network?
For windows patching/updating, WSUS is made for your need.
SpiceWorks does a decent job of the inventory part of what you want, may be a big "bulky" for you however.
MAP can also gather data from multiple domains as long as the appropriate administrator credentials are provided.