Ultimately, if the goal is for "Starbucks Client" to be able to browse seamlessly to http://internal.server and for that to be the pages on your internal server, I can't think of a single way of doing it so it's pulling the pages directly from your internal server if you can't get a hole of any sort in through your firewall.
Can the "Public Server I Control" already communicate with the "Internal Server I Control"?
Could you just use rsync or something to push them out to your server if they change, or are they pulling content from a database or something?
I need access to these web pages from random clients on the Internet.
create a VPN tunnel outbound from your LAN to your server and use redirect/forwarding of some sort with a firewall.
This causes ssh to listen on port 80 of PSIC because of *:80 and then forward that to port 80 on ISIC because of localhost:80.
The whole point of a firewall is to block unwanted traffic, so if you can't tell the firewall "I want this traffic" I would imagine it would just do it's job.
I assume the internal server you control (ISIC) is allowed outbound ssh to the public server you control (PSIC).
You do have options if Starbucks Client can connect to http://your.server though they're going to be bodgy at best i.e.
I have a server on an internal network that publishes web pages.
The problem is that I don't have control of the firewall this server is behind.
If you can't get a vpn, gotomypc or linkmein may accomplish the same thing.
On the other hand, I do have access to a public server on an entirely different network.
Ask for a VPN and use it to Remote Desktop to your desktop workstation.
(OSes are flexible: I have access to both Windows and Linux servers on both sides.)
Then you're "inside your network" and can access what you need.
I mention it as if you're trying to bypass restrictions your company has in place it could end very very badly for you - something to be aware of.
Also (and sorry to preach or state the obvious) if you don't control the firewall, are you actually supposed to be doing this?
I'm not sure how you could pull this off if you can't modify the firewall.