I downloaded a program called SpeedFan to see the temps and it says:
If the fan's running at top speed, it sounds like its doing a real good job of cooling the CPU (at 36C).
Could you post which Intel Pentium (TDP, FSB, codename, etc) you have if you know off the top of your head?
I think heat would only affect performance if it got so high the motherboard started throttling the CPU/GPU to cool it back down.
This would help in identifying if  your CPU is running too hot or just right.
In general, I would say anything below 60C is good if the machine is idling, 60-75C would be expected if the machine's heavily used.
I assume Temp2 is the processor; if a blow a fan on it a while it drops pretty rapidly.
actually doing somethign on the computer got the temps up to GPU 67 and Temp2: 72
From my experience high temperatures in excess of 150 F are normal for PC components (especially GPUs) so as long as you're not experiencing any issues like sudden, random and warning-less lockups or restarts.
I think the Pentium D runs hot anyway, just like the Prescott line before it did.
Does this affect performance or is it in any other way bad for the system?
Either because it's been manually set to 100% or it's not reading the temp properly (either bug, or dirty/poor connection).
It could be more likely that Temp1 is the die temperature of the CPU and Temp2 could be the northbridge -- since those sometimes don't have a fan and can get REALLY cooking.
A larger fan spins at a slower rate producing a lower frequency than smaller fan trying to move the same amount of air.
Not having a side on the case messes up the airflow which means the heat generated in the case is not being efficiently transferred out of the case.
If that fan isn't old, then the size makes it sound louder.
I have a non-standard machine and it seems to run very hot; the CPU fan whirls so loudly I can hear it in the other room (the case is open, mostly because the side got lost at some point).
I find it hard to believe there's over a 30C difference between the two cores on the same die if Temp1 and Temp2 are for the CPU.
Cleaning out the dust from the heatsink and fan will help bring the temperature down.
If you are blowing a fan on it and the temps drop, then you need better air flow.
Try putting a piece of cardboard where the side used to be and watching the temperature.
If you're willing to spend a little cash you should invest in a case that'll help promote proper airflow or a heatsink made of copper.
It also wouldn't hurt to make sure you have a good thermal contact between the heat sink and CPU.