It is based on the epiphany browser but appears to handle video much better and is has better support for HTML5 features.
I fix it change de video format of my application.
Would installing one of the Ubuntu OS options for the RPi offer any benefit?
The best result I've had has been in playing a ~10Mb local .webm file in iceweasel, which was able to manage ~1 frame of the video every ~3-4 seconds.
Note: At this point the thing I really want enabled:
I tried with version 50, but chromium wouldn't open properly.
Since the first arrival of the Pi2 we have been trying to get acceptable speeds for serious javascripting, basic HTML5 and HTML5 video.
I've tried 'testing' file format compatibility over at html5test.com, but haven't been able to play any of the 'compatible' files on any of the 'compatible' browsers (I've tried both .mp4 and .webm [both local files and URL-linked] on Midori, epiphany, iceweasel, etc.).
I just wanted to note that I've been researching this topic as well and found some 'hacky' solutions.
The best video playing browser for the Pi, in my experience, is KWEB3.
I've tested several methods to enable smooth playback in the browser using HTML5.
And finally, I used the glshim library to open chromium-browser with partial hardware acceleration.
I've searched this issue extensively online, and the 'new' epiphany web browser was/is supposedly the answer.
Our conclusion: painfully slow and not ready for mainstream.
Note: Make sure you have Chromium-browser version 45.
Because its presentation as being the ultimate HTML5 browser, we also tried epiphany.
I've increased the allocation of memory to the GPU, which hasn't offered any real improvement.
My web-based application utilises HTML5 for various dynamic elements (img, video, etc).
For each browser I then navigate to http://html5test.com and check the rating, and play a YouTube video.
I'm hoping to be able to use RPi's for system deployment, but I can't seem to find a suitable mix of browser/file format which allows for HTML5 video playback.
I'm starting to think that the RPi just isn't up to the task of playing HTML5 video under Raspbian?
While we don't have a direct need for HTML5 video at this very moment it was something to try out.
Would love to hear other peoples experiences though.
Looking forward to any other ideas anybody else has!
We manage an amount of Pi's as Digital Signage clients.