I found that once I had any kind of ACL or routing rule in place on a WRT54G that the processor limited me to approximately 12mbps of inspected traffic.
You might be able to get away with just two but with 3 AP's it should work pretty well for 60 users provided none of them are doing unfriendly things like bit-torrenting or live-video streaming and you have an internet uplink that is fast enough - 100Mbps or so would be ideal.
From personal experience, we had 2 of these for 80-odd people in a classroom, and they worked, but we had to reset them constantly--They are just built not for that type of use.
Even if you do that the various 2.4Ghz client devices tend to misbehave a lot so if you cannot ensure a uniform set of clients you will struggle to get this to work consistently especially in an environment with a lot of warm wet human bodies moving around.
I'd imagine that most consumer-grade devices will perform nearly the same way.
I suspect that this will become your problem before any issues that might arise with the 2.4 band.
If so, you can get a lot more spectrum by using 802.11n capable access points.
Even with good enterprise grade Access Points like Cisco Aironet 1200's and with a managed environment (with WDS\WLSE etc infrastructure) you will struggle to sustain >10 active users per AP on 2.4Ghz.
Over about 15 clients will be unusable anyway (the client will associate but won't traffic will flow poorly).
To set this sort of thing up properly you would need about 10 AP's with 2.4Ghz kit and you can not do that reliably without using a management system so you can be certain you are getting effective cell coverage and managing interference.
This is just a thought and I am not even sure its effectively doable or would solve the problem.
My experience with WRT54G devices is that you're not going to get more that 20 clients to associate with one.
Could you let a better-quality piece of equipment handle DHCP and pass that through the Linksys router?
If you need to support 60 concurrent users in a reasonable space with 5Ghz WiFi standards things are a lot easier - there are (many) more non-overlapping channels available, the RF environment is much cleaner, the Client devices that support 5Ghz are generally much better behaved and you have that basic carrying capacity on each channel that is higher.
If you can use 5Ghz 802.11n\a then you may be able to hit 30 concurrent users and still get acceptable web browsing traffic.