If you're doing this as a fixed-cost contract, then unfortunately I think you're going to have to either run out into the country and scream every couple of hours, or find some other way to convince the customer that you need shell access.
If the lack of shell access is slowing you down significantly, I'd suggest telling them up front how much extra time you're going to have to bill, as a result of the inconvenience.
You can untar the files on your side and upload them in batch instead of uploading the tarfile and extracting the files on the other side.
Is is the convenience of doing stuff local on the web server, or are there legitimate risks of data going clear over the wire?
Maybe I'm missing the same point that the admin failed to catch.
PHPMyAdmin does, indeed, allow you to execute scripts and perform database dumps.
This will make the admin angry and you happy :): php shell
But even then, the site's performance was so inconsistent that we had to switch to another hosting company.
Without more details, there's little to build a case in your favor.
Just keep sending them detailed bills containing all the extra time you've had to spend working around their stupid requirements.
Can you connect with a remote mysql client (in which case, uou can try using the SSL option), or is it bound to the server's localhost or otherwise non-routable interface?
Many of the "cheapo hosts" don't even offer shell access, and some require you to pay extra for SSH.
If sensitive data is a concern, you can set up a simple PHP-upload page and utilize HTTPS for your uploads.
That plan didn't have SSH, so we had to pay for an upgrade.
It might be the case that the customer already knows the host doesn't offer SSH, or the customer just doesn't want to pay for it.
When my company tried using 1and1 for a small website a couple of years ago, we quickly ran into a brick wall when we tried debugging the website on the cheapest plan available.
If so, then perhaps you just haven't completely articulated the real problem that's preventing you from getting the work done.
As Geoff Fritz suggested, you can always make another plea in terms they're more likely to understand: $$$.
I like shell access as much as any admin, but the customer always knows best.
To me, it does sound like you technically can do everything you need without shell access.
Just bill your time, and if you take more time because not having shell access slows you down, then tell them that.