One of the external NTP servers (the primary one--currently) we're using as source seems to not be responding to NTP calls.
As a result, our core router which is pretty much our main internal NTP source is 2 minutes late.
I'm planning to fix the external router issue by making the external NTP source be the one currently working.
Obviously you cannot schedule a small downtime, do you?
If NTP has only two primary sources and they're both out by a significant amount, NTP has no way of knowing which one to trust.
You need at least 3 (preferably 4-6) time sources for NTP's algorithm to accurately converge on the correct time.
This document disappeared from view when Oracle bought Sun, but you can still find it on the Wayback Machine.
Specially since these days, we're heavily relying on certificate-based authentication.
The single biggest help to me in understanding this was the diagram on page 9 of the Sun blueprint "Using NTP to Control and Synchronize System Clocks, part III: NTP Monitoring and Troubleshooting".
looking out to two external NTP servers (in which the primary one is not responding to NTP calls)
I would push for a downtime in order to restart the ntp service on all affected servers.
I'm wondering, how much will a 2 minute change affect my users and services?
There are also plenty of hits around the web if you search for the title.
Synching with Core router 1 (primary), core router 2 (secondary)
Synching with Core router 1 (primary), working external router (secondary)
Unfortunately, on our core router (Cisco 6509), the NTP functionality hasn't switched to the secondary NTP external server as it was expected.
(I was going to make this a comment on vortaq7's answer, but i think it deserves repeating in its own right, since many people make this mistake.)
You may want to consider looking at other NTP server(s) than your core cisco equipment: serious NTP traffic gives a high cpu load on the cisco equipment which could result in network problems.
If that is not possible, then you have to wait for some time.