Actions or sequences that remove control from the player are the most universally derided gameplay mechanics.
Something to that extent is certainly nothing I've heard of before.
So have any games attempted something like this and had some success?
So we made it so what the character experiences, you experience.
At randomized times, targets would appear on either figure, and begin to shrink.
Wildstar, an MMORPG, has such mechanics too (blind = dark screen, confuse = inversion of commands).
However, you should be careful when implementing it.
If you were weak, your mouse cursor would lag and glide around.
Like I said, they were intended to affect the player literally.
On the enemy, these were "openings" and you had to click them before they disappear, the closer to center, the better the hit.
This question got closed on gaming SE as off topic.
I know some games have done variants of this kind of spell system.
Players like their games to make them feel powerful, not to acknowledge and emphasize their real life flaws.
A player expects to have complete and total control, within interface limitations.
For example, with incendiary damage, if you get caught on fire, your screen fills with flames (similar to if you were wearing the flame suit Till from Rammstein wears on stage), and your character takes constant DoT from the fire.
On your figure, you had to click to defend from an attack before the target shrank.
Weapons/quest items that cause more obscure effects like drunkenness have a notable effect on your accuracy of firing your weapon, and directly impact your aiming ability.
Looking back, I think this was still a fun idea, but it seems awful from an accessibility standpoint.
We added a bunch of effects like "conditions" that could affect your player - the standard stuff like blind, dazed, weak, etc.
Excluding your targeting allusion, a very good example of effects impacting your player in the scope of a first-person RPG is Borderlands (any of the games).
Well done, such mechanics can work even on highly competitive environnements like hardcore MMO raiding scene.
The number one thing players expect from their game is control.
It's an action RPG with very similar combat mechanics.
There are rhythm games like Elite Beat Agents employing something similar to your attack/defend game mechanics but based on music.
The conditions on your character made this interesting.
This would have logically extended into a spell system, where you actually have to remember spell words and combine them into creative combinations and type them real time.
Elite Beat Agents is actually quite challenging but fun to play.
Everything translated to an actual impairment in your gameplay, not some arbitrary "your attacks do half damage".
It used wandering monsters and a cutaway battle screen system.
I haven't seen a single game where not-being-in-control due to darkness, staggering, impairing effects, etc.
Many years ago, a friend and I prototyped a simple 2d rpg with what we thought was a unique idea for the combat mechanics.
It would certainly be an interesting idea, and objectively a great mechanic, but I think you'll find that in reality, human players will hate it.
If not does it seem like a reasonable and creative idea to try?
This also impacts your ability to aim, due to the proc effect.
I'd also recommend playing The World Ends with You!
In Borderlands, any elemental proc damage that impacts the player, does so with a visual HUD effect, as well as a tangible impact on play.
The basic combat screen included an outline of the enemy, and one of you.
They tend to use the stylus for game mechanics similar to yours.
If you were dazed, the targets would wobble randomly.
Regarding crippling the player (controls) I'd always advise not to.
The unique part is that we wanted to make the combat as close to you, the player actually fighting, and not just you commanding a character to do stuff.