It would work better if the laptop was in standby mode.
With traditional chargers (those that are a 'dumb' DC SMPS) what will likely happen is as the laptop requests more current, the voltage will start sagging until it reaches a cutoff and the laptop stops charging.
Though details were provided in the comments that slightly changes the question, I'll add my personal experience addressing the title by itself.
This one didn't deliver the full wattage right out of the box, maxing out near ~45W.
Firstly, it's quite clear that it won't meet the 45 W the laptop expects.
input - they will only allow what they can handle.
Basically, all modern batteries are built with with a chip that regulates the
Wikipedia has a simplified reproduction of the table, on the right.
However, I can charge my laptop just fine with my phone charger.
This one finally took, delivering the full wattage, but only after I swapped out the certified 100W cable for a Monoprice cable.
It will try to negotiate with the charger, discover the charger does not support 15V, and abort.
This is also correct for chargers which also support these smart features
If the laptop has a proprietary charging port, use only the stock charger
To get 45W, you need either 15V on 3A or 20V on 2.25A.
As long as the voltages agree, most likely this will work, although slowly.
The theme of the above story is that most adapters try to deliver the watts at the voltage required.
In short: the max power you can get at 9V is 27W (3A).
I ordered another charger, even more powerful than before, upgrading the cable and supposedly the adapter itself.
I got a small 35W USB-PD charger as a "just in case" backup for my laptop.
I have a Huawei USB C charger (from my Nexus 6P phone).
Since the laptop can communicate with the charger, technically it can discover the charger's capabilities.
Whether a laptop does so or not would depend on the laptop; this is optional.
In this case, the biggest problem you'll likely run into is the USB-PD's power rules, as seen in section 10 of the revision 3.0 specification.
I started using the new one hoping that it would be adequate for almost-idle usage, it was.
Another try, again upgrading the cable to a certified one, and an even higher wattage adapter.
Some even go above their own rated output, which is unlikely to help their longevity.
On my laptop (HP Elitebook 830 G5) it says input 20v 2.25A OR 19.5v 2.31A.
Your charger claims: "Type-C Output: 3.6V-6V 3A 6.1-9V 2.7A 9.1-12V 2.3A"
Again, it is possible for the laptop to accept different voltages, but this is vanishingly unlikely: it requires significant additional circuitry that laptops tend to not include on the power input.
Unlike phones, laptops tend to not 'test' supplies for the max current they support - they assume you're using a properly rated charger.
It worked ok, until it stopped delivering the full wattage.
Only after I started using it under a heavier load, and/or charging the battery, that I noticed it got extremely hot and started to smell.
But we run into an issue: with USB-PD, it is also possible for the voltage to vary, and chargers can supply different voltages.