If you work in environment that requires high availability and you can’t reboot servers when you want.
Select a time frame for each system, notify users and perform all necessary work including firmware updates during this allotted time frame.
redundant ROM in HP Servers, or if you have an EEPROM flasher and are willing to use it a removable chip).
Unfortunately, few of us would think (or perhaps have the moxie) to go back later and mess with the RAID firmware of healthy system unless there were problems.
My tendency would be to apply a "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" policy for the most part.
Workstations and Printers only get updated if there is a specific problem such as a required bug fix or security issue.
It is less important with servers, as for the most part the firmware code either dosn't execute beyond the boot process or is so simple there little to go wrong.
In this way you can be certain that all your systems are up to date and minimize impact on production at the same time.
The best practice in my opinion is to implement a maintenance schedule.
We update firmware every chance we get, which regrettably is probably 3-4 times per year (Major maintenance windows) for some systems.
I can't speak on Dell, but I was told by folks inside the IBM storage group many years ago that the first levels of their RAID firmware is NEVER the best performer.
On motherboards, we DO NOT mess with them unless vendor tech support tells us.
That way we at least get the best performance levels available at the time.
I think it depends on type of environment you have to deal with.
They shoot for stability first, and then crank up the performance with future rev levels.
So, our strategy has been to upgrade the RAID firmware levels every time we set up a new server, assuming the RAID adapter isn't a brand spankin' new model.
I have had bad experiences with upgrading RAID firmware on servers, as many manufacturers don't guarentee the current RAID configuration will be viable if the firmware vesion changes, the same with individual disks in the array.
I will usually update the firmware when comissioning any new infrastructure equipment.
It is worth checking if it is possible to recover from a bad firemware upgrade (i.e.
If it is a new mode adapter, we try to make a mental note to go back in a few months and check for updates, but we're not religious about it.
Also, as was noted in comments earlier, it is necessary to check for firmware updates when you building a new server.
Our experience over the years has been that unless there is specific problem that needs fixing, the risks vastly outweigh the hard-to-measure benefits.