When the affected devices attempt to reconnect, they will instead connect to the "Evil Twin" access point (so long as it is broadcasting a stronger radio signal).
The attacker can then send de-authentication packets, causing all connected clients to disconnect from the real Starbucks network.
As to viewing your computer, some people leave file sharing and/or Remote Desktop/VNC/Screen Sharing enabled with exceedingly weak passwords.
I've read that they can see what sites your viewing or even access your computer if you're connected on the same WIFI connection but how exactly?
Another potential danger with public WiFi is the existence of "Rogue Access Points", especially the Evil Twin variant.
One of the tecniques is sniffing the packets that the wifi router/switch are routing, however most of actual wifi routers use criptography to encrypt the data on traveling packets.
Unencrypted HTTP traffic is simple to reconstruct.
For a sobering (and scary) look at some of the things they can easily do, take a look at Steve Gibson's discussion of Firesheep located at http://steve.grc.com/2010/10/28/why-firesheeps-time-has-come/ - and also a discussion of how hotspot owners can easily protect against that exploit.
Nowadays most of wifi modens are using 802.11n protocol, that uses a high level of criptografic algorithms.
What a hacker could do on this case is use brute force to discover the criptografic key (on this case when you are using low-level of criptografy algorithm like WEP).
For seeing the sites you're viewing, they just have to run a packet sniffer tool that captures all the network traffic being transmitted over the air.
An attacker can then perform a person-in-the-middle attack on affected devices, allowing for e.g.
session hijacking and other attacks outlined by the above posters.
Simply put, an attacker creates a wireless access point with the same name and (spoofed) MAC address as a real AP near the victim's computer -- say, for example, Starbucks.
It's also possible they could use known unpatched security exploits in your machine to gain access.