The HDDZone.com has a guide for drive replacement here: http://www.hddzone.com/conditions.html
So I thought I would take the risk of replacing the board given no previous issue with noise or read/write to the drive.
If that  works, then you've got a good chance of success.
Further investigation showed the hard drive was "clicking".
Firms that do this professionally simply buy an entire matching drive and remove the board from it.
Match the board number which is etched on the PCB.
I think it is important to note that I had, had no other issues with this drive prior to this... it just suddenly was not there on boot.
I had a similar issue... My hard=drive was no longer recognized by the computer bios.
The connections between the board and the hard disk are surface-mount-soldered to very small pads.
Do report back on identifying the right PCB if it goes beyond model number..
Not necessarily swapping them.. Just taking it off and putting it on.
If the data on the drive is valuable to you, you should really have the drive serviced by professionals (which, to my experience, are far more likely to conduct a platter transplant, as this is faster and easier than a PCB replacement).
The websites referred to by Moab in his comments are the only two I know of that will help you find correct hard drive PCBs.
But I think with that plan, you have a great chance of success.
The number is printed on the PCB’s back side (the side without chips).
Shipping was fast and item was accurate - and also included the proper screwdriver just in case I didn't have one :) Nice Touch.... and of course this solution worked for me .. so I am very happy.
Try experimenting by taking the PCB on and off cheap small capacity old drives
My drive happened to be a Seagate Barracuda 7200.10.
One issue can be if the firmware on the same model drive is different.
But see what the people selling PCBs say.. and you'll get the right PCB.
Ordered my part ( EXACTLY ) installed it and voila... it now works... backing up my data at this very moment!
Essentially, I think you're guaranteed to fail, possibly expensively.
Drive recovery firms use custom jigs and specialized devices.
I got my new board from http://www.onepcbsolution.com/  Their site was easy to navigate and I was able to find a match for my drive.
I doubt there are any humans that can do this completely reliably, it's very difficult.
http://www.hddzone.com/western_digital_pcb_swap_replacement_guide.html