The only time this doesn't work is when email is sent via direct connection (firewall NAT, proxy, etc.)
At a choke point, something like the "smtp-gated" proxy (see http://smtp-proxy.klolik.org/) could be used to log email messages (probably thru shimming its virus scanning interface).
It sounds like you're trying to either (a) overengineer this, (b) get by on "the cheap", or (c) do something nasty to people who don't realize their traffic is being logged.
To do it transparently would involve some fairly low-level mucking about in the network driver stack.
If this is all being done for a single domain you might consider just signing up for email archiving services from somebody like Google Postini (http://www.google.com/postini/) and routing all your incoming and outgoing mail thru them, where it will be archived.
Consider this action carefully before you proceed.
I don't know of a suitable product but am sure there are a number available.
If the machines are all on one network, you're much better off doing it from a network tap.
You could limit the input capture to SMTP or POP3 and it would capture all the data transmitted over those ports.
If you install an application on each workstation you'll simply be creating a lot more work for yourself, with questionable results.
Before you head out to do this, you will want to check the legality of this in your country and jurisdiction, as in some locations this is patently illegal and can result in rather nasty charges against you.
Almost all MTAs have a BCC function that will either forward copies or send emails of every email that passes through the system in question.
Failing to disclose this usually doesn't result in criminal charges but can land you in a whopper of a civil suit for big $$$.
I would suggest that the simplest way by far is to set up a proxy for both protocols and configure it to save a copy of every message.
Even though the data network belongs to the employer (and is treated as their property to be used as they like) there are cases where you can have invasion of the employee's privacy, and that's a path you don't want to go down without good reason.
(You're looking, basically, for a distributed "Carnivore" email tap system.)
If you are looking for something to install on the computer, look at products like Sonar which can do what you're looking for.
I seriously doubt that you're going to find an off-the-shelf solution for what you're looking for.
If you use managed switches in your environment, you could use the port mirroring feature of your switch to capture all the traffic generated by that computer using a sniffer like Wireshark.
You could contract with a coder to write some client-side SMTP and POP3 proxy shims to do what you're looking for.
To do it visibly, you'd just point your outgoing SMTP and POP3 at "localhost" and configure the proxy software with the appropriate POP3 and SMTP servers to connect to when connections come in to localhost.
If you end up in jail or a civil suit, well, you were warned.
There's probably something suitably similiar for POP3, but I'm not coming up with anything.
The local proxies would implement a POP3 and SMTP state machine that allowed for the capture of messages traversing the proxy.
Combine this with additional filtering and you have a basic audit system.
If you don't want to do it transparently then that opens up a lot more possibilities.
Any commercial offering is going to be targeted at deployment at network choke-points, not at the edges of the network as you're describing.
And there are usually local cached copies of email folders that can be retrieved and examined on the employee's computer.
Even in the USA, where data networks are pretty much the property of the employer and are controlled fiercely by them, there are still some states that require disclosure to employees that their activities can and will be monitored.
Even if there isn't a MTA to be controlled, you can also find email clients that will send BCC to another address as part of its function.
Using tcpdump to capture port 25/110/etc and then doing some post processing won't be hard at all.