Any help would be appreciated, altough I suspect that the answer to this question will make me feel embarassed.
Not sure if it helps, but I think around the same time I started having problems (On both installations) with windows turning off the display when I leave the computer, and then seemingly crashing when it turns it on again -- in fact when I interact with it it seems to be responding to my commands without actually display anything.
This has never happened to me before, with any other program.
And yet I doubt it really is a problem with Visual C++; More like something general that seems to have picked on it for some reason.
When the display was turned on again, Windows was displaying the second monitor.
Basically everytime I install Visual Studio Express 2010, it works fine for a random amount of time but then suddenly starts to hide from my sight -- that's the best way I can explain it.
VS does not crash, and from what I can tell it does not freeze either; It continues to work, I can even "minimize" and "maximize" it; I simply cannot see it nor can I interact with it any meaningful way.
This explains why the "problem" cropped up in both windows vista and then in my fresh installation of Windows 7.
I knew the answer to this question would make me feel embarassed.
The catalyst might have been the installation of the service pack I needed to run VS 2010 on vista -- which mostly installs features which are inbuilt in Windows 7.
Of course, there was never really a problem, the content was just being redirected to another display.
When VC++ was debugging the program, it moved to the second monitor and stayed there.
If anyone else has this problem, the shortcut to switch monitor configurations in Windows 7 is [Windows Button] + P.
This has happened before on my Vista Premium installation, and now it's happening on my Windows 7 Home Premium installation.
Still, after a clean install with a new OS, I'm kinda thinking there's something wrong here.
At some point, on my old installation, I installed a driver which gave me the ability to use two monitors at the same time -- the problem being of course that I don't have a second monitor.