I then go to Youtube and listen to a song, which sounds fine - I hear both the background music and the singing.
The singing silences, but the background music is playing just fine.
The wiki article on connectors explains the hardware nicely.
Depending on the patching of your audio chain, this might be only that channel coming through, or else summing or inverting.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phone_connector_(audio)
The following article shows how you might do this with an audio editor, and gives a general idea of what's happening.
The best mixes "place" audio in this three-dimension space effectively.
Or even how old Beatles records would have really dramatic panning; entire instruments hard panned.
Bass is as well, this is both another foundation element, and for reasons of phase and some fun legacies of the days of cutting records.
Normalization affects the audio path as this other Wiki article introduces.
Did I just find a cool way to hack background music for karoake?
Just watch something or listen to something while fiddling with the balance until you hear properly again.
It is still important for an audio engineer to consider the various audio environments, where many radios will be mono.
There are two wires in your cable, and they are carrying an audio signal each, which is separated in the connected/plug.
But largely, our stereo mixes exploit the stereo format to sound interesting.
Have a look at the black stripe on the plug (or white, if it's an iPod headphone!
A quick example; for most radio-friendly music, the vocals are largely going to be in the center.
http://www.howtogeek.com/56335/how-to-remove-vocals-from-music-tracks-using-audacity/
You experience this effect as a mix of the hardware and the audio mix.
I had the same issue, got it resolved by following the below steps.
In this case, a stereo signal is summed as a mono signal.
A large part of mixing audio is placement both in the left and right of the perceived audio environment, and forwards and backwards by use of things like reverb.
In your case, the center channel is being inverted.
Imagine what happens with your signal when one of these channels drops?
I had the same problem with quite a lot of my earphones, at first I thought they broke but then I found a way to solve the problem.
If you are using a MAC, go to system preferences, sound settings, Output, and then fiddle around the balance.
Connect your headset and make sure, you only hear music and not voice.
This is curious in 2013 to see a lot of new models of radio units released with a single mono speaker.
But you will notice backing vocals, guitars, and drum kits are panned across the spectrum.
I plugged my headphones into the soundjack on the side of my Mac Air.
By connecting halfway in, you're only getting one channel of that two channel audio stream.
When you only semi-patch the connection of a stereo signal, you're only getting part of that mix.
I put my balance point all the way to the left and everything started working again.
But the effect you mention is likely a product of inversion.
Your audio connector is most likely a stereo connection.