That part is not interpreted by smartctl (assuming I understand correctly, of course) - that drive has told smartctl that is isn't happy with its current state (for whatever reason) and smartctl is just echoing that warning to you.
I had a spare drive that I can still boot from that fails SMART checks every boot and requires a soft reset, has for years, but it's just a dump, not a system disk!
I had a similar issues with some Seagate drives a few years ago.
However SMART error significantly increase the likelihood of a disk crash in the time immediately after initial detection:
I would suggest moving your data off that drive ASAP, preferably before it next power cycles in case the spin-up problem is real and might get worse.
18 hours later another drive went, 24 hours later a 3rd drive went.
I can't stress this enough: You need to start swapping your drives!
Even if it is misinterpreting the spin-up time reading, I don't think it is doing any interpretation on the "self assessment test" reading.
We bought about 8 disks at the same time and they all were from the same lot.
I'd change the disk ASAP to avoid having to get up in the early hours.
Make sure you have the latest copy of the smart utils not just the ones included in your OS.
The main concept of RAID is that disks fail at different times, giving you the opportunity to swap one disk at a time, and avoid data loss.
Run a DST on the disks, and replace them accordingly.
So although SMART errors can persist for a long time they should ALWAYS be heeded in production, as the risks heavily outweigh the cost, time and data integrity benefits.
That's a 9% chance that two disks will fail and your RAID at that point will be destroyed.
Based on both the message from SMART and the quote above, you should change disks right away.
So statistically your disk is probably OK, as it's well exceeded the 60 day limit.
Others have reported simultaneous failure of an entire array of identical disks in a RAID configuration, coming from the same production batch, and thus being subject to the same weakness.
Since the drives have been bought together and are the same model, they will probably have the same weaknesses, and probably all fail simultaneously under the same condition...
smart utils are updated frequently and some of the errors reporting from specific drives to get resolved.