In D:\Users, I was able to use "RMDIR /S badAccountName" to quickly delete all of the folders.
Keep holding shift as it restarts, and you will get a menu of repair options.
You will need to log in with your working account, and will then get a command prompt on the X: special boot drive.
It boots from a tiny X: drive, and at this point C: is the special boot partition, so your real C: drive is D:.
Open System Properties, choose the Advanced tab and select "Settings" in the User Profiles section.
Here is link for Sysrescue http://www.sysresccd.org/Sysresccd-manual-en_How_to_install_SystemRescueCd_on_an_USB-stick
For future reference, Win8.1 (and probably Win8) has a built-in repair console that let me delete an old user folder that I could not delete from within Windows.
If Bob is listed in there, you can try deleting which should clear up all associated registry keys, directories etc.
Choose "Troubleshoot" and then "Advanced Options" and then "Command Prompt"
Change to D: and dir to confirm that it is your normal C: drive; if not, use DISKPART to list the various drives and volumes to figure out where your real drive is.
Use robocopy with flag /Mir from administrator cmd to mirror an empty folder into the Bob folder.
This also stops 'windows' from having any hooks active against the files you are wanting to remove, basically stopping windows from interfering with your task.
I do this for similar issues but would not have spent as much time as you have thus far, I head to this method fairly quickly if it is obvious something it giving me an issue.
Given what you have said I would go to create a bootable device (CD/DVD/USB, USB my preference) running something like, lets say, SYSRESCUE, and boot on this and elect to run a "file manager" of some sort (like Midnight Commander), does not really matter what as long as you can see NTFS drives and is known to be reliable.
Not safe boot's command prompt mode, but a direct boot to console.
Then go ahead and navigate your way to the problem area and delete.
Log out, then hold shift and click the on-screen power icon and choose "Restart".
This command can bypass path length limit and use the power of top admin.
Only file are read-only and are being opened will not be delete