My question is: is this typical of shared hosting providers or could I find one that allows me multiple private certificates?
It is true that you cannot have multiple ssl certs for a single IP.
IE on Windows XP doesn't support it, but does on Vista.
However, I was told that since it is shared hosting and ultimately each site runs from the same IP address, I could install only a single certificate and secure only 1 of my sites (since each certificate requires a dedicated IP).
Either use different service ports for each cert (this option sucks) or find a CA that allows SubjectAltName within certificates.
Recently I contacted my shared hosting provider about setting up private SSL for a few of my sites.
As an example of this you can check out CAcert which allows this.
There are only two ways to have multiple domains secured that use the same IP.
Until all your users on XP disappear and your hosting provider upgrade their servers, there isn't a great deal you can do about it.
Meaning one certificate will authenticate several domains.
This is beyond wildcards as the domains don't have to have anything in common.
This is not all that useful an answer right now, but in the future, you should be able to use Server Name Indication, which uses an extension in the TLS protocol to send the server name as part of the TLS handshaking.
However it is technically possible to get a certificate that is valid for domain1.example.org domain2.example.com etc...
OpenSSL doesn't enable it by default until 0.9.8j which was released 5 months ago.
I am currently developing several sites and would like to keep costs at a minimum which is why I am not yet upgrading to VPS or dedicated hosting.
I have several sites hosted under the same plan (the plan allows for unlimited domains).
The other option they gave me was to use a shared certificate; this is unacceptable since the browser would generate a certificate warning.
With SubjectAltName you can define as many DNS entries per certificate as you like.