I believe the theory is that, if the HDD resume is instantaneous (or faster), then the OS can be much more aggressive in its power-down decision considerations:
I also wanted to fine-tune the behavior of the scripts, but I wasn't excited about spending the time to figure out how to go about it.
To prevent HDD from spinning down on my laptop I use CrystalDiskInfo.
Windows Power Management will not help, it's HDD APM settings.
There's a Group Policy setting in Windows which disables the Non-Volatile (NV) power saving mode for hard disks which have this eco-feature.
Select HDD and change settings for APM under APM section between Min Power and Performance.
Like many batch file solutions it periodically writes a file to the external HD (seriously... is there no other way of programattically interacting with a drive to keep it awake than by writing a file?
Anyway, I know this is an answer to an old question, but it's where I found my first (and now supplanted) solution for keeping my external HD awake just a couple of months ago, so hopefully this solution will be of use to others—whether its a first solution for them or an improved one.
), but it offers the convenience of a graphical interface and adds a number of options—several of which I find very useful.
You can see the source code on the project's page, which I like because it helps keep the program's behavior transparent (e.g.
Anyway, I see four Group Policy settings related to "hybrid" hard disks.
There's an option for 'Hard disk' and 'Turn off hard disk after...'.
My preferred solution – that I've switched to at home and at work – is a free & open source app (Windows only) called KeepAliveHD : http://keepalivehd.codeplex.com/
You should be able to turn this off unless the drive has some crazy firmware that completely ignores commands.
In the Power Options dialogue in Win 7, take your given plan and 'Change plan settings', then 'Change advanced power settings'.
Thankfully I ran across something that I find more convenient to implement and tweak to my individual needs.
If your sata controller is intel, you can install a recent intel rapid storage technology driver and disable link power management to prevent your hard drives from entering low-power states.
You have to download Standard Edition, then go to Function -> Advanced Feature -> AAM/APM Control.
no hidden 'features') and I suppose it also might give non-Windows folks a starting place for creating something for their platform.
I've been using the batch file approach to prevent my Western Digital external HDs from sleeping, but I wasn't a fan of the number of steps necessary to implement it—made worse since I had to do it with multiple drives.