Any mathematical background has a strong potential to pay off in future research.
All of these tools show up in computational geometry nowadays on a regular basis, and their use will only get more sophisticated with time.
That really depends on the specific brand of "theoretical and combinatorial aspects of computational geometry" you're most interested in.
Conversely, if there's a particular area of mathematics you find appealing, study that area deeply and work your way forward to research applications.
To Suresh's excellent list, I would add linear algebra, combinatorics, graph theory, convex geometry, non-Euclidean geometry, differential topology, probability, statistics, optimization, logic, abstract algebra, category theory, randomized algorithms, approximation algorithms, online algorithms, data structures, and computational complexity.
Moreover, the best topics to study to master existing research is not necessarily the same as the best topics to study to generate new research.
p.s As an aside, if you have a computer engineering degree, it's possible that your background in core theoryCS is weaker than if you had a straight-up CS degree (because of the emphasis on the EE side of things).
Where you should focus first depends on your specific strengths and interests.
And a little computer graphics, animation, robotics, learning, vision, scientific computing, scheduling, VLSI design, compiler optimization, databases, distributed computing, ad hoc networking, sensor networking, game theory, signal processing, cartography, and graphic design wouldn't hurt, either.
A comprehensive list along these lines would include:
Obviously you can't actually learn everything, unless you're Terry Tao.
I'm going to answer a slightly different question (as indicated in my comment):
I have found (from conversations with other TCSers) that some kinds of geometric intuition are unfamiliar, so the best kind of background will help you in that regard.
If you have a specific topic in mind, it's probably best to jump straight into some recent research papers and work your way backward to the specific background you need.
If that's the case, then the material in the links provided by Kaveh will be immensely useful, probably more so than this list.