NG+ play-throughs are often intended to offer additional challenges.
Next, consider having an early example where the player doesn't have a choice.
Not only does this provide some clear signalling to the player, but it's also a bit more realistic in that it's common for an accumulation of bad choices to cause progressively bigger problems.
As an aside, I also suggest that you reward a bit the 'bad' decisions, giving your players a bit of comedy/goofyness for having chosen the 'impulsive' action.
You can improve this effect by wording the options appropriately: "Yes - we will be severely outmatched for no significant gain, but I'm up for a challenge!"
Imagine a quest, where the king sends you to get an elixir from the alchemist far, far away, that will cure his daughter.
I suggest that the first such decision you offer should be of little consequence.
My first thought is to not present the situation in a yes / no fashion.
By this, I mean include some narrative beat or plot point in which the clearly demonstrates how deferring to the NPC's poor decision making has an undesirable result.
against "No - we will come back to this when our equipment is more appropriate/we have disabled their defenses/they are asleep/..."
Instead of 'no', offer the choice to do it later when stronger/better equipped/etc.
If the player chooses the 'bad' option, and after the harm is done, have the second NPC comment that the decision was kinda stupid.
Each subsequent time raise the stakes & on a few occasions, include a bit of flavor text that reflects back on what happened last time.
The second thing I would consider is having prior experiences to guide the player.
Finally, if you plan to offer some sort of new game plus (NG+) option, you could make certain decisions mandatory the first time through, but give control back to the player in subsequent play-throughs.
Later on, when returning with the elixir, the companion might suggest that while you're in the area, you could check out some place that has loads of loot and should be totally unguarded at the moment.
Allowing the player to opt into a hard experience by deferring to the NPC might be a natural, less contrived way to do that.
As the designer, you'll need to weigh this option carefully, as taking control away from the player can often leave a bad impression.
For instance if the player is already on a quest & needs to arrive on time to complete it, you might present the choices as:
From that point on, the player will learn not to always trust the companion and wage the possible benefits of detours vs the primary quest.
- this makes it clear that the player won't be missing out gameplay/xp, but that this is an unnecessary challenge.
For instance the first time the player concedes to the NPC maybe the stakes are low & there's a clear, negative consequence.
If the player decides to check it out, he will find some mediocre loot there, and when coming back home, he will learn that the king's daughter has died because the player was too late with the elixir.