Something to consider for your setup is your VPN bandwidth.
The only thing I can say as far as difficulty so far is there are a lot of configuration structures to get set up.
When it comes time to set up our other site, it's likely I will deploy a second Bacula Director instead of trying to do it over our limited upstream, but if you've got the bits to spare, the central management will be nice.
AhsayOBM detects delta level file changes, and is a fully featured backup option designed for off site backup.
I'm currently deploying Bacula on a network of Linux boxes and will be working on getting the Windows desktops going next.
That said, there are more free software solutions you might want to consider.
Does anyone else have any experience with this scenario?
You can set up incremental backups which shouldn't strain things terribly, but the initial Full backup to get things primed could be painful.
However, if you know that Bacula is what you want, and have decided that other solutions (like good old Rsync) are not suitable, then go ahead and dive into it — they say they have the Windows Storage daemon packaged for you in the binary installer.
There's a lot of reuse to be had once the structures are in place and working.
There's a fairly extensive hierarchy of Jobs, JobDefs, Clients, FileSets, Schedules, Pools, Storage, etc that needs to be set up.
I'd be greatful for any other helpful resources you could point me to.
Dirvish is one of them, and somebody apparently made it work on Windows, packaged it in an installer, and named it hardBackup.
If you're comfortable with technical documentation, textual config files and have some time to play around, the power you have in the end should be well worth it.
I use this setup for file repication, but it's not a true backup solution, so it may not be what you are looking for.
The Bacula guys themselves say that Bacula is sophisticated and does not suit everybody.
Haven't had any experience with that also, though, but I know that his copSSH and cwRsync work together and are great.
We have two sites, one linux (Ubuntu) based, the other windows based which we would like to connect permently over VPN (using openVPN).
http://www.aboutmyip.com/AboutMyXApp/DeltaCopy.jsp
I do not have any experience with Bacula, and for a reason.
We need to backup some files on a number of linux (Ubuntu) servers to the windows Server at a remote site.