In my case, I got the error message while running an SSRS report using a shared data source.
This shared data source did not specify a default database (the Default Catalog= parameter), and I couldn't add it to the connection string because I don't have the password (and when you change something in an SSRS data source it tends to want you to re-enter the password).
But then I remembered that this server is set up to be case-sensitive.
To solve this, I changed the default database for the login in the SQL Server instance from master to the database containing the stored procedure the report wanted to execute.
I created a stored procedure testtable_pricesmaller as follows
For the editor, look in the lower right corner to see which instance and database you're connected to.
After renaming it, when I tried to call dbo.MyProcCaller, I'd get this error message:
The MS SQL Server Management Studio require one to restart it after creating a stored procedure in it.
which I used the Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Management Studio.
Here's a simple way to check if you have this problem.
After restarting the MS SQL Server Management Studio, there is no such error anymore.
My solution was to alter my second stored procedure to use the new name:
Some time later, I renamed dbo.MyProc to dbo.MyProc2.
I know this is old; I came across this question while I was searching for a solution to this very same problem, and I'm posting this answer in the hope that it helps others who also find this question.
I have created a table testtable inside the database testbase that have the following structure:
I then created another stored procedure that executed the first one
I find it very strange when I receive the following error:
(It is listed in the following tree structure of the Object Explorer)
and are able to view the Stored Procedures on the Object Explorer of the Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio.
TL;DR: You may have a stored procedure that's calling another stored procedure that doesn't exist.
At last I know why the message appear in the MS SQL Server Management Studio.
When running things from SSMS, keep in mind the Object Explorer pane is one connection while whatever editor you have is an entirely different connection.
(Strange, does that mean that every time I create a stored procedure, I have to restart it?)
So you may see the objects for SQL01 in Object Explorer, but the code you're running in an editor will run against SQL02 - I've run into this problem a few times over the years and after much cussing and "Why won't it work?"
This question is a few years old, but I just want to throw in another possibility for anyone like me who found it later.
Click to modify the text of the stored procedure and then execute that text.
If you get a warning like this, you need to rename your stored procedure: