MS Exchange 2010 will include builtin email archiving.
From users perspective, Outlook 2007/2003/2002 Add-in: Personal Folders Backup is pretty handy.
For myself, I keep my email archives in text files, and have all my email going back 19 years.
A good friend of mine that worked at a large Exchange Hosting company wrote a good article as to why you do not want to leave PSTs on a network share here:  http://cohesivelogic.com/2009/05/should-you-store-psts-on-your-file-server/
They do give you an easy way to share the "archived" messages, just put the folders and files on a share.
I see that you don't want to archive all e-mails, but just certain e-mails for certain people?
MessageSave does the same thing with the body of the messages - it pulls them out and saves them on disk in - usually - .eml format.
With Outlook 2007 SP2, local caching of very large mailboxes (>2GB) works very well.
With Managed Folders you can make custom rules for archiving/deleting old emails in client mailboxes.
One other option (in addition to GFI MailArchiver) is Redgate's Exchange Server Archiver which seems to do everything you are looking for.
You can read more on their website, but basically they're used to pull messages and attachments out of Outlook and into folders.
So these aren't a perfect solution, but for you or someone with similar needs, they might do the trick.
I havent personally used it yet, but plan on experimenting with it soon.
For the past year or so, I've used the programs mentioned above to save my messages as text and then to store any attachments I didn't have somewhere else.
EZDetach goes through any Outlook folder(s) you point it at (can be a mailbox or a PST) and pulls out attachments and deletes them (if you want.)
For myself and on an experimental basis for a few normal users, we've used two products called EZDetach and MessageSave.
There is a registry tweak that will limit the size of the .pst here
We have psts on a dedicated machine at each branch and havent had any issues at all.
There are other similar tools, but I haven't tested very many of them.
You can keep old email as long as you want and there's support for shared folders.
If your are using MS Exchange 2007, then you could use Managed Folders.
They're not really for novices, they usually just work they way you set them up, but there are lots of options and if you change something you can get strange results - messages saved in unexpected locations, for example.
I haven't used it myself, but they do have a free trial: http://www.red-gate.com/products/Exchange/index.htm
Are people concerned about losing information that they have moved into PSTs?
I found these two work for me personally and for a few others in the company.