If in doubt, or if you have instances of ASDM hung in your Taskmanager, reboot your PC.
Recent versions of Java seem to break the connection to older versions of the firmware.
So essentially the situation for some people may be this:
I have found this to be the corrective action on multiple ASA5505 units for clients as well as my own.
You have enabled http/https access but you need to finish that setup by adding the IP address for your workstation to the "Management Access" list.
The recommended "fix" from Cisco is to upgrade to a newer version - which is really convenient for them since this requires an active support contract for the device in question (ie it costs money).
Open your Java Control Panel (for example by launching "Configure Java" in your start menu)
I don't have support, but I have restarted, reloaded, repeated steps, and done everything I can think of to do.
The irony: Downgrading to an insecre version of Java is not exactly going to be ideal for people who purchased an expensive "security appliance" from Cisco in the first place.
However when launching and logging in with the ASDM client, I receive a message "Unable to launch device manager from X.X.X.X"
If you do not have proper certificate, it will not work.
I will be limping along with my current device using an old Java version, and stay well clear of Cisco devices in the future.
So I'll be using a downgraded Java version instead.
You'll need the ASA software, asa843-k8.bin, along with the corresponding ASDM software, asdm-645-106.bin.
In my case the support contract for an older ASA 5505 is actually more expensive than throwing it in the trash and buying a new device from scratch.
Locate option "Use SSL 2.0 compatible ClientHello format
I've seen similar errors posted but I think mine is a little different.
Open Control Panel, Java and add the site certificate as Trusted.
I've worked through formatting and putting ASA825 back on the device, and I've installed ASDM-645, and I can browse the website.
If you are using temp Cert, you will need to do this every time ASA Reboots.
I intended to do a factory reset, but ended up running an erase, which of course wiped everything out.
When using the Java web start, I get: Unable to load resource: https://x.x.x.x/admin/public/asdm.jnlp.
I can open the https://x.x.x.x/admin landing page.
The important portion once you've uploaded the files to the device is to set the boot and ASDM image:
I'm new to Cisco, and was given an ASA 5505 to configure.
You probably don't have web access, so you'll need to do this via the command line.
I understand that supporting products costs money, but making it so expensive that it completely breaks common sense and becomes more expensive than a new device is just - frankly - plain stupid.
But not for everybody (and I have no idea why to be honest).
Since no one else seems to have offered the following, I will even though it is an old post it seems to be still helpful and active: