I think, the multi-tiered territory feature is an over-engineered solution to a "solved" problem.
If you're confident that this design decision will impact the sales of the game, and that there is no other way to convince this person that the group should go in your direction, maybe you could give him some equity in exchange for more control.
You and your partner could collect server metrics, and if Partner mode (or Arj mode) shows to have too few players, you can decide to shutdown that mode later.
Go with your approach first, as it has already been implemented, let's for call it Arj mode for now.
What I mean by that is start off with small squared, and expand them, however make each bigger square contain smaller ones.
I'm not suggesting you and your partner shouldn't have creative liberties in the game—but seeing what other similar games(products) do is a good way to reduce complexity—as someone else has solved it for you!
Have the world broken into a grid of a base size (e.g.
Even if some rules are weak, together they are strong.
There are a lot of particulars that I think need to be answered but the biggest problem as I see it is that players can't see/interact with players operating on scales above and below them.
I do know about a game that has world-territories that's worth reviewing: Ingress (by Niantic)
Although the grid idea works, I think a hybrid approach would feel better:
The Insurgent -- 'A' scale player getting promoted up to 'B' scale.
Based on your descriptions, it sounds like the con listed for the scaling territory design is technical in nature, and the cons listed for the non-scaling territory design are more a matter of personal opinion.
But over time, your players will stay with the most enjoyable mode.
Most RTS's are about command bandwidth: quickly and accurately controlling your units.
These wouldn't have an affect on gameplay but satisfy most of your "pros".
Offering two modes, means offering two servers, with double the effort to maintain.
If you have solid answers for all this, the scaling design does seem like it could have some late-game benefits to it (no longer having to manage the minutia), but if not, it seems like the whole scaling scheme is incomplete at best, or completely broken at worst.
As a player, I would like to play both of them, and to form my own opinion.
But if one server is offline, the players can still play your game on the other server.
Lets leave off the technical issues presented by the map API's for a moment, and just explore the multi-scale world conceptually for a moment:
And then in the end if the design decision ended up helping the game by significantly more than 5-10%, then you'll come out ahead.
(Are they out of the game from a threat they had no options to defend against?)
Having to zoom-in and out to regions seems like it would exponentially increase the complexity of controls at least one magnitude.
Given that you indicated there were 10 different scales, this means that for any particular location, there can be 10 overlapping domains, but at any scale, the location can only be owned by one player.
What happens to the long standing 'A' scale border dispute between The Rival and The Insurgent after the promotion?
Then implement the other approach later, let's call it Partner mode.
There is a lot of things that could make Arj mode or Partner mode dead-ends, like powerful players being unable to find opponents, or new players unable to expand.
Just because you spent 2 months designing and developing this for pre-alpha, shouldn't be an argument for keeping the feature in the game.
This might add to diversity in the form of having "small" players attack "big" players, and thus being big doesnt mean you can not lose.
Both modes can fail, so there is still more design decisions to be made.
The complete, consistent, and well understood model beats out the incomplete model with unresolved (or unresolvable) technical or conceptual issues.
That is, when I (as a player) think about games with territories, I think about static regions like squares, hexes, or polygons (Risk).
Games with learning curves will limit your audience.
This is an indicator that multi-tier territories won't meet expectations.
In other words: The game could be made to work consistently in a readily understood manner with the non-scaling design, but the scaling design, as is, still has at least technical holes in it, but from my understanding it seems there are conceptual holes as well.
So even though you win 10 battles, you will lose 1, and this might help for a weirder shapes formed.
From a gameplay perspective, this sounds like a management nightmare.
Unfortunately, these kinds of design decisions are hard to reason about.
From a technical (maintenance) perspective, multi-tiered territories are significantly more complex to implement and maintain.
The Rival -- 'A' scale neighbor of The Insurgent before before promotion.
Then visually, you implement groupings of the territories so you can see who owns what at increasing sizes.
I can see that both modes growing with different rules could be enjoyable for different reasons.
A feature should be in the game because it's right, the only option, or because there isn't support/motivation to change it.
What happens The Insurgent's new 'B' scale territory is in the middle of an area all owned by The Overlord?
You can also sell Partner mode as a game expansion, to cover the costs of implementation.
I dislike idea #1—as a territory system—and will try to provide a compelling argument.
This sounds great in that the big players can't just squash the newbies, but complete isolation isn't going to be possible in practice because players need to be able to cross into the next scale up as they grow otherwise they are all just playing 10 different games.
In the future if you decide to refine your system, you are working with multi-tiered data versus an array of squares (oversimplified I know).
If he gets an extra 5 or 10% of the cut, this might be enough to sway him to go your way - and then in the end both parties get more of what they want.
As a big one attacked on multiple fronts you will not be able to defend each attacked small square.
What happens if this was the only territory controlled by The Overlord?
The Overlord -- 'B' scale player controlling the 'B' scale territory The Insurgent will be promoted into.