Since you have started recently, there should be an understanding that the place didn't fall apart overnight.
You will find problems with your firewall rule sets and machines that are vulnerable to attack.
Since you asked for a starting point, I think this could help you.
That said, there are plenty of checklists out there if you look.
We also had to schedule meetings complete with detailed agendas, which usually meant they knew what to expect.
I wouldn't be too concerned about being "prepared".
I did this for quite a few years, and it was common practice for us to provide a detailed overview of what would be assessed and why (methodology).
There are many suggested ones you can dig out using Internet, but I prefer this one.
Issues are usually aplenty, and most IT staff are open to discussing them if the engagement is kicked off properly.
I also recommend you to use tools such as nessus (that will check your network/servers for vulnerabilities) or mbsa (microsoft baseline security analyser), but it will only check windows hardware.
What the current process (if any exists) and what it should/will be future.
I would be looking to put together a statement of how you do business.
probably also need to be prepared to talk about how you can support regulatory compliance for other business units depending on the regulations your company might be under.
But the primary goal of this effort should be to surface as many issues as possible, prioritize them, and develop action plans for remediation.
If I understood well, you need a sort of check list and that seems like a good starting point.
We submitted formal requests for information, provided tools for the IT staff to run and collect data, including any potential impact of the collection process (if any).
In fact it's used by many auditing companies to audit IT area.
If the network that you acknowledge is in need of improvement receives a good report, that would probably be a waste of the company's money.
Along with the auditing topics, you can find additional ones that will be required in time, too
I recommend you to spent some time reading COBIT, that is Control OBjectives for IT.
You also need to run it remotely to get an idea of your remote attack surface.
You can tell OpenVAS to scan every machine on your internal network to identify problem areas.
There's no constructive purpose served in sandbagging someone in an initiative like this.
This is why OpenVAS exists(OpenVAS is the new free version of Nessus).
If it was a penetration test or security type audit they would have told you that and it wouldnt have reach across other departments.
It isn't practical to go to each machine to make sure its fully updated.