What is the version of the terminal services client on the client machine (your XP machine)?
Is the issue resolved if you select the "Allow connections from computers running any version of Remote Desktop (less secure)" ?
No config changes have been made in quite some time.
If I telnet to that port from the machine itself, I can start typing away, which proves that TCP connectivity is there.
The only changes along those lines are regular updates with Windows Update.
There is Windows Defender, but I am never prompted to allow Remote Desktop, and given that one of the main EXEs for Windows does the work, I don't see how Windows Defender could be having an effect on it, or how I would configure it.
If you have another "Server" machine nearby you can open the Remote Desktop Manager on that machine and then "connect to remote computer" and you can remotely logoff the stray sessions.
Is the issue resolved if you update the TSC to the latest version?
This problem started a week ago, after it had been working for months.
Since Remote Desktop was working before, this is probably not your problem, but I have seen video drivers cause Remote Desktop to fail.
I have a Vista machine which I connect to regularly, and it no longer works.
I do not have any firewalls setup on the Vista machine.
Why won't Remote Desktop accept incoming connections?
If you right click on My Computer, then go to Properties, then to the Remote tab, which radio button is selected?
If you have updated your video drivers lately, you might try doing it again to a newer version if one exists, or downgrading.
If I run netcat on the Vista machine to open some random port, I can reach that port from the FreeBSD machine without issue, so communication between the two machines is fine.
I would just login to the "Remote Desktop Manager" tool on the server your connecting to and disconnect any stray inactive sessions.
If I run TCPView or netstat, I can see it listening on the port I specified.
Now, if I go to another machine on the lan, any other machine, I cannot connect to it.
I used netcat on a FreeBSD machine to perform the same test as above, and the connection simply times out.
Gotta be something in the Windows firewall, or of course the Remote Desktop settings in the Remote tab of System Properties.