If you go this route, use either RAID5, which will allow for one disk to fail, or SHA1/2, which will allow for either 1 or 2 disks to fail, respectively.
I've worked with the large enterprise rack versions as well as the home line of products.
Most large companies use them for backup and archive.
https://www.synology.com/en-us/support/RAID_calculator
Is there another back-up modality (like some sort of disc) aside from SD cards, USB drives and EHD that can store large files ( over 4GB sizes), audio-visual,and pictures which has both longevity and has less risk of loss or  deletions from accidental internal malware, electromagnetic issues and the like; and that is not cloud based to third party ownership?
One thing I appreciate about Synology is the Synology Hybrid Raid feature.
I would add a warning though: While optical means such as dvds and blue-ray discs might be less susceptible to electromagnetic energy than some other methods of storage, they may be more susceptible to light based damage.
If you go this way, I suggest putting the NAS in a location that can be easily accessed in the event of a disaster.
Ideally, run a conduit to a detached structure and set it up there.
You never stipulated if the data needed to be online all the time but the only media I know of to date is Blu-Ray media (BD-R) which store data at up to 50GB per disc, however the 25GB disc is more common and cost effective as of this posting.
I have seen people build 'NAS Houses' on their property.
One could use a blue-ray burner and blue ray discs to back up your data.
Certain types (BD-RE) can be written to several times, whereas others (BD-R) are only writeable once.
Standard DVD discs hold around 4.7 gigabytes apiece, and blue ray discs hold 25 gigabytes per layer (with two, three, and four layer discs available).
and using a backup software to manage a full/incremental backup strategy.
And a RAID calculator to help you envision your solution once it's built out.
All of their stuff works off the same OS (DSM), and is very user friendly.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blu-ray#Competition_from_HD_DVD
It's basically RAID5/6 (SHR1/SHR2) that allows you to upgrade the disks in your appliance simply by replacing each disk one at a time and letting it rebuild in between.
I recommend setting up a 4-bay NAS (Synology DS414j or similar.
I've found them to be much better than QNAP products.
I trust the company, and their free tier software offers full backup, incremental and differential as well as Shadow Copy.
This way you can pick it up on the way out of the house.
http://www.techsupportalert.com/best-free-hard-drive-backup-program.htm
Here's a list of free backup software that may work for you.