I have a Raspberry Pi, and I have an SD card with Rasbian on it that is currently in the Pi.
Now you should be able to SSH from your machine to your Rasbian Pi :)
I came across this question while faced with the same error/problem.
I think you might have the wrong IP: "ipconfig" on Windows gives you the Windows IP address: you want the Raspberry Pi address.
"Connection refused" generally means the sshd daemon isn't running, and/or isn't listening on port 22.
I went to the windows command line and typed in ipconfig and looked under Ethernet adapter Ethernet > Autoconfiguration Ipv4 Address to find the ip address of the Pi.
However, I thought that I would need access to the Pi in order to change that.
The only thing I can see that looks strange in the command line to me is that there is no default gateway set up for Ethernet.
I read other posts saying the error is caused by the server blocking the connection, but I am not sure how I would go about fixing that.
I had the same problem until I enabled ssh in interfaces.
I want to SSH in to the Pi, so I have installed PuTTy.
I've found something that works for me, so I'll update the answers.
I tried making sure I had the right IP address by trying to ping the Pi (and I can).
The Nov 2017 version of Rasbian already includes SSH server and client.
The instructions for this can be found here: Headless Raspberry Pi Setup
Try typing sudo raspi-config, then go to interfaces and enable ssh.
Then select "Enable/Disable remote command line access to your Pi using SSH"
I took that IP and entered it under "Hostname(or IP address)" in PuTTy.
I have a laptop with Windows 8.1 on it, and I have connected it to the Pi using an Ethernet cable.
Can someone tell me if there is a step I am missing in my setup that could be causing this error?
The short answer is that you need to add a file to the boot folder of your SD card, and call it "ssh" (the filename is extension-less, mind you).
I looked online, but I couldn't find a solution for windows (but there are a lot for Linux).
http://www.instructables.com/id/Use-ssh-to-talk-with-your-Raspberry-Pi/