Apple took an AWDL-like proposal to the Wi-Fi Alliance where it became known as "Neighbor Aware Networking" (NAN) and is now being marketed by the alliance as "Wi-Fi Aware".
I wouldn't be surprised if it's just a neat idea that got into the standard but never gets used.
I'm wondering about the specifics of the way infrastructure Wi-Fi devices operate.
Wi-Fi Direct was an early attempted that never caught on in the market.
One would assume it would make more sense for the following setup:
Eventually an updated form of AWDL came to OS X; that was when you could finally AirDrop between Macs and iOS devices.
Apple also uses AWDL to allow Macs and iOS devices to do "AirPlay" A/V streaming and screen mirroring to nearby Apple TVs even when they are not on the same network.
This is called "Intra-BSS Relay", and it's done to avoid what's known as the "hidden node problem", where both STAs are in range of the AP, but they are not in range of each other.
"Wi-Fi router"), then every packet transmitted between the two STAs is actually transmitted from the first STA to the AP, and then from the AP to the second STA.
However, I'm not sure how many STAs actually support TDLS.
Apple used a proprietary solution akin to a stripped-down Wi-Fi Direct to create the AirDrop feature for OS X Lion.
It remains to be seen whether "Wi-Fi Aware" will truly be interoperable enough and reliable enough to catch on in the marketplace where Wi-Fi Direct failed.
I'd imagine that in some scenarios the router could be used to facilitate a connection between two devices that are already connected.
It's nice that this solves the hidden node problem, but it means that wireless-to-wireless transmissions cross the same channel twice, taking roughly twice as much airtime as would really be needed if the two STAs could talk directly to each other.
If two 802.11 STAs ("Wi-Fi clients") are connected to an 802.11 Access Point (abbreviated "AP", a.k.a.
To help avoid that waste of airtime, an addendum to the 802.11 standard has added something known as "Tunneled Direct Link Setup" (TDLS) to allow two STAs on the same AP to talk directly to each other when they are in range of each other.
There have also been various ways developed for two 802.11 STAs to talk to each other directly regardless of whether or not they're joined to the same network or any network at all.
Device1 <----> Device2 (Router setups the conversation between the two devices and leaves them alone to finish it)
I'd always assumed that all data is transmitted to the router, and then broadcasted out to the relevant device.
In summary does the wifi router Always need to serve as the middle man?
Apple then created a different solution called Apple Wireless Direct Link (AWDL) to allow iOS devices to do AirDrop.