The other key part is the remote host that you are pulling from or pushing data too.
commands like ping and tracert in window are a good start.
http://www.internetfrog.com/mypc/speedtest/ is another speed test tool you can try.
For example I pay for a 6mb down/ 1mb up connection.
Through put is a pretty easy test, just go to one of the sites listed here and it will test your upload/download speeds.
http://www.bandwidthplace.com/  are both very good.
Under both Unix and Windows you can use the traceroute command, or if you want a nice GUI program you can try something like Ping Plotter.
Through put is how much data can be pushed or pulled through the connection (download/upload).
This also takes into account the time the remote host takes to process your request and send it back so take this with a grain of salt.
A slow response time will cause you to "lag" and make the game less fluid to the point of unplayable.
If you connection is bigger, then you are limited by the remote host connection and effectively DoS the remote host.
An example would be if an ISP says your connection will be between 3mb down and 6mb down.
Just remember that the connection you pay for from you ISP is an UPPER limit (most of the time).
Responsiveness is how fast does my request make it the destination and back.
They will give you a rough idea of how long a round trip to and from a remote host takes.
Online games rely on fast response over higher through put.
6mb down/1mb up is the uppper limit of my connection.
Other things to consider in evaluating a connection are Uptime, what ports are blocked, ISP policies regarding us of Bittorrent, IRC, SMTP,  or other services.
Responsiveness is not a big deal when surfing the web or chatting on line.
In addition to using just a speed test often it's helpful to find out packet loss as that can give the appearance of a slow connection as well.
It comes into play with applications like online games.
DSLReports have been round for awhile and have a decent download, upload, and latency test.
A good connection is made up of key parts: Through put and responsiveness.
There are more but I am sticking to the main 2 (in my opinion).