The problem is if you queried this name before and it got cached.
Assuming I'm more or less correct, I don't understand how companies like CloudFlare or DynamicDNS can offer "instant rollover"-type services whereby you change your DNS record with them and - boom - the change takes affect instantly.
Let's say your domain is example.com, and let's say example.com domain hosted with some dynamic  DNS company, let's call it lightfastdns.net (fictional name).
Some older OSes kept old record for long time, and older browsers too.
The change does not need to propagate to every DNS server in the world.
So I ask: what is it about Dynamic DNS and its competitors that allows them to change DNS mappings instantly (without taking 24 hours to propagate DNS changes like everybody else), and how does TTL fit into this process?
My understanding of the core functionality of DNS is to provide a naming/mapping service between domain names (e.g.
This propagation period can sometimes last up to 24 hours.
You have some misconceptions, so I'll try to explain the whole process.
If you change something and someone queries the changed record on your DNS server the result is instantaneous.
that plays a role in this instant rollover capability, but since I'm already fuzzy on the capability to begin with it's hard to make sense of what this TTL is or what purpose it serves.
Furthermore, my understanding of how Internet DNS servers work is that when a domain/IP mapping record is changed (say, changing blah-whatever.com to now point to 105.2.3.4, etc.
Your domain contains DNS record - somehost.example.com, which currently points to 1.1.1.1.
So to begin with, if anything I have said so far is misguided or incorrect, please begin by correcting me!
In DNS you can set how long an old query is valid, and that period is often set to several days.
Then you will get the old IP until the cache expires.
For DynDNS it is typically set lower, but not all DNS resolvers honour that.
(I'm good with the details since I involved in operating a public dynamic DNS service).
To make it complete - some ISPs violate the standards and cache records for long time.
I understand there is something called "TTL" (time to live, I presume ?!?)
What we have now is that all "authoritative" servers for your domain received the updated record (1.2.3.4).
Thus, propagating the record took from 2 to 120 seconds, depending on the state of various caches.
), this change needs to be propagated over every DNS server in the world before the change can be said to be "complete".