If in your area there is a chance of electrical failure, Please get a UPS, In my house, even though outages are a rare occurrence, there have been incidents where an old toaster shorted the sockets circuit and turned off the server.
If it's a site that when it goes down you have a small revolt on your hands at work and coworkers with torches at the door, you should probably rethink your priorities on saving money.
Most likely it is async - bad bandwidth upward to the niternet, good down.
And finally for running the server, I would recommend, if you can setting it up in a server room in your house, this can be in the fuse / telecom / alarm / other equipment room or bedroom  as there is often direct access to power and a telephone line there.
Not even mentioning RAM with ECC, faster processors, dual power supplies, etc.
So any and all server requests that hit the platters are going to suffer.
You need to measure what you have available, your skills, your experience, and your hardware budget against what you're using the server for and the affect on customers and see if that hosting cost is worth what you'd put into it.
Honestly, if you HAVE the equipment, money, connections, and knowledge, then YES it's cheaper, because these are the things YOU'RE PAYING FOR.
It's impossible to really measure the value of the site and hosting to you from the information you posted.
If this is your personal website that gets ten hits a day, stick it on your home link.
Performance, that is why you should use a good VPS provider over something like a mac mini.
If you would like to change your electrical architecture, split the main incoming power into two separate distribution boards, with different circuit breakers for "critical" server equipment such as modems, routers, servers and computers.
But every time someone points out that these are what you're paying for, you counter with a "what if I just...isn't it cheaper to..."
I would certainly NOT recommend placing it in a "public area" such as the living room (unless you know that people there will not touch / pull out cables) as I have had bad experiences with people playing with my servers!
I use Linode and have a 512MB instance at $20 a month.
Too many concurrent requests will quickly result in disk bound limitations.
I would recommend that you build it yourself, as it is often the most cost effective method, if you would like you can get a Intel Xeon E3110, I have been using this for about a year and a half and so far it has performed spectacularly, I would choose a decent hard drive, like the WD velociraptor, ad also very importantly a stable power supply.
I would also recommend that you install some sort of web management system such as webmin / virtualmin as well as SSH console access.
With regards to the operating system, I personally like Debian for its simplicity and user friendliness, although any UNIX based system would be fine.
There may be cheaper offerings than your current host.
A good host has redundant connections, hardware, power, etc.
If QOS is possible, make server traffic more important or vice versa depending on the situation.
Rare is the home user with the networking knowledge for setting up or reconfiguring that equipment.
It's "cheaper" to change your own oil in your car...and do all other maintenance...because you pay the mechanic to do the labor for you, because they have the skills and resources you don't necessarily have.
You're paying for your site to be up, online, available to customers, despite hardware failure (depending on how you have your agreement arranged with them).
If you use your home computers on the same routers maker sure that the server is on the DMZ and you have a proper firewall such as IPtables and have it configured properly, there are some very good tutorials out there and also some good books such as Linux IPtables.
However, this will likely cost more than $55 a month.
A home system typically wouldn't have redundant power, multiple Internet connections and/or service agreements with an upstream provider and equipment providers (dead Cisco router?
Disk throughput is going to be utterly terrible on a mini.
I host my own servers at home and have had no significant failures so far.
If you want to own the hardware you can purchase a used server and find a colocation facility near you.
You're not even mentioning what your server is for, who's accessing it, how much traffic it sees, information like that.