I just want to add one thing that nobody else has mentioned yet.
For solid wire, which is cheaper adn normally used for fixed wiring, the insulation is broken on each side and the wire is wedged by side contacts.
That may explain the differences in the cat5e vs cat6 plugs -- the cat6 plugs may have guides to maximize the pair separation and keep the pairs themselves twisted right up to the crimp.
Are you really planning on running a 10gig to the end station sort of infrastructure?
as if you were going to plug it in to your eye, you will see the alternate up/down wires of a CAT6 RJ45, as opposed to the flat configuration for CAT5 Rj45s.
Although you may get away with using the wrong one it is preferable to ensure the correct one is used, as it will give you more reliable cables.
I'll make the wild-ass guess that by the time you really need 10gig to the desktop, they'll be able to run 10gig over cat5.
Remember, the largest cost in the installation is the installer!
There is too much out there to yank it all and the first group that does it is going to make bank...
Given that the cost difference between CAT5e and CAT6 is so small now, I can't understand why any responsible engineer would do new installs with CAT5e.
Note this is for field terminated RJ45s, manufacturers can produce products of greater tolerance and as such can be flat.
There are also different plugs for use with either stranded or solid wires.
Don't assume you've got an infrastructure that's cat6 unless you test it.
The differences between these two types of plugs is in how the connector pin pierces the insulation and contacts the wire when crimped.
Specifically when you're making your cables, you have to make sure that you put the ends together to minimize "near end cross talk".
Understand that you won't be able to make something that's cat6 just by using cat6 qualified components.
Unless you test it after you make it, you should assume
CAT6 is much more future proof, for little extra expenditure.
If you check the standards you will find that CAT5e is NOT certified for running 1Gb Ethernet.
Given the slightly lager gauge wire of CAT6 the RJ45s offset the wire entry, where the CAT5 RJ45s wire entry is flat.
For stranded wire, which is preferred for patch leads, there is an additional middle prong which is designed to pierce the insulation and go between the strands, as well as the two side contacts.