Or it is just a way to sell a more expensive model.
Note: I'm not asking for a review or appraisal of these specific drives, as the general question does apply on other brands as well.
This is a general question that came out of a specific comparison between the Western Digital Scorpio WD3200BEKT and Western Digital Scorpio WD3200BJKT (which is the same as the former but with a free fall sensor.)
This by no means guarantees that the drive will survive; it can still kill it if the shock is severe enough, but at least the platters will still have their data intact (unless the shock is somehow astronomical enough to actually jolt the magnetic bits around).
The sensor is specifically calibrated to detect free fall (like the laptop being dropped), not just minor bumps.
That being said, it would not make it less relaiable as it will try to park the head to avoid physical damage to the platter.
To break down the general question in order to answer it, I would be looking for comments on things like:
Hard-drives (usually laptop drives) with free-fall sensors are designed such that when it detects that the drive is falling (usually the whole system), then it tries to park the head(s) quickly so that when it hits, the heads are on a non-data section of the platters.
Or it could be standard marketing techniques where by making drives with and without results in larger sales volume than just those with the feature alone.
If the laptop is merely bumped, then the sensor should not trigger since it is calibrated not to.
I suppose that the fact that a manufacturer produces both drives with and without free fall sensors says something about possible disadvantages.
Only few people and scientists may experience this situation but it happened already and ruined some very expensive measurements.
Usually however, it will just try the read/write again and unless you see other, more critical SMART values rise, then nothing particularly bad happened.
But it may be a bit less productive if you are typing out a novel on an international flight that has alot of turbulance, but your data, scripts and story line should be safe.
As you can see, even a typical 2.5" laptop drive has enough space for the tiny component.
There is a disadvantage: If you try to use your hard drive in a free fall environment it may not work.
Free fall Sensor is a part of Active Hard Drive protection and is only suppose to react in a free fall state.
For hard-drives in which a head is floating on a microscopic cushion of air above a disk spinning at thousands of revolutions per minute (Scott Mueller analogized it as a jumbo-jet flying a few feet off the ground), this can be/is usually quite harmful and results in a catastrophic head crash.
Instead, what may happen if the bump was hard enough and the drive happened to be active at the moment is that it will encounter a read or write error and log it in the SMART table: G-sense Error Rate: The count of errors resulting from externally induced shock & vibration.
If a laptop is dropped, it will experience a a moment of weightlessness and then a sudden and relatively massive increase in shock (g-forces).