Is limiting the movement of servers in/out of the datacentre normal practice?
Being rank-and-file security guards, I got the line "They're just our instructions, we can't deviate" and I respect that, but I can't get any answers as to why.
The cops are going to laugh in their faces, and they don't have a lot of other options.
Our current co-lo datacentre permits us fully un-restricted access, we don't even need to book, we can just show up and sign in.
You may be able to get more servers out by just asking the guards nicely (perhaps one particular guard isn't so hidebound), by bullshi^Wbeing thrifty with the truth ("what?
This doesn't work quite so well if you're planning on remaining a customer in some way, but I'd be getting the hell out entirely of a facility with stupid rules like that anyway.
Crash-tackle you in the lobby in front of the security cameras?
I wouldn't call it "normal", but it's not unknown for DCs to have all sorts of insane policies like this.
Usually you can talk to an account manager or some sort of higher up that can talk to security and inform them of an exception.
It's your equipment, after all; what are they going to do, call the cops to report a theft?
If that doesn't work, I'd make two plans -- one for having to do it in pieces over 2 weeks, and another that covers you being able to move them quicker.
We've got 20 servers that we need to remove from a datacentre that we haven't physically visited in about 5 years (I've never been there, it was from before my time).
no, I haven't taken any servers out tonight, that was last night"), doing it before/after shift change, putting N servers in one shipping box, or taking them out via the loading dock.
(I'll bet their rationale is "well, if you're stealing them, the real owners will find out and stop you before you can clear the place out", but that is, of course, ridiculous -- how much better is it that their security allowed people to steal two of your servers, presumably the most valuable ones, rather than the lot?)
If you've got an account manager or any sort of "higher-up" contact, you definitely want to get onto them and start making all sorts of unpleasant noises.
Finally, if all that doesn't work, I'd try taking more than two servers out at a time anyway and watch them try to stop me.
We've had to go through complete re-induction, security checks and had to re-apply for all our security passes again because it's been so long since we were there that they had changed security software and we weren't present in the new software.
I totally understand that - it's just good practice and makes me happy that our servers are in a controlled environment.
This means that a one-night job has now turned into a 2-week job, which is exceptionally frustrating.
Has anyone had experiences like this with datacentres before?
While I wouldn't expect them to bend over backwards for you, I would expect them to act professionally and let you move your equipment out at once.
From your description, the policy is only about removing servers, which makes it sound like an underhanded attempt to prevent you moving to a competitor, rather than any serious sort of security.
But what I don't understand is that the datacentre security are stating that we're not allowed to remove more than 2 servers at a time (i.e.