But if I go to another tab or cover up the visualization (or even choose a simple visualization like "bars") the audio is smooth.
Some people report this as an interface problem between the GPU and the computer's memory, when the memory is too fast for the 8600GT.
I fixed it by doing the following on Windows Vista.
I started ending the SVCHost ones listed as "mine" (my user account was listed under user name) then moved on to the once running under "local" after ending one of them I got an error that the system will have to be shutdown because a process unexpectedly terminated and media player immediatly stopped being choppy.
When it came back up I loaded a song in WMP with a crazy visualization running.
I closed WMP and after that the system was pretty much locked up.
I found the best way to test it is with Windows media player.
I only have the problem when on a high resolution (that's desktop area.)
I yet don't know what other possible effects this had on my PC so this is a definate "do at your own risk."
try and run the the flash WITHOUT hardware acceleration(right click on screen go to properties).
Disabled all non-microsoft services under the startup tab.
I usually just let the entire video download before trying to play it.
I held down the windows key and tapped "r" to bring up the run box.
(In short, whatever mechanism flash uses for buffering sucks).
Also I have the problem anytime I have the graphics card is changing what's on my display.
Something I've experienced with all of the flash-based video sites is that if, for whatever reason, you're not receiving the stream fast enough, you'll get chops and lags waiting for it to buffer the video.
I don't recall which ones I ended first, and you can cause a BSOD so I wouldn't duplicate my steps here.
In fact the computer "expert" in me can think of about a thousand reasons why that shouldn't have fixed it... but it did.
(I don't know if the windows-r and shutdown cancel are neccesary.)
I opened task manager, displayed processes from all users, then started ending processes.
The solution in this case was to reduce the RAM speed in the BIOS to 533 to solve these display problems.
First I uninstalled and reinstalled my Nvidia graphics drivers.
Ie WMP's visualizations cause choppy audio and video not just flash player.
Make sure you have the latest version of flash, not all versions support hardware acceleration.
I could be running factorals and maxing my CPU and it'll play no problem, but if I scroll the audio gets choppy.
I wouldn't try this unless you have the exact same symptoms.
I'm not sure if all steps are neccesary but since I can't duplicate the problem anymore I can't narrow down which step fixed it.
When I have the visualization showing it's audio and video are choppy.
Should be fixed with adobe flash player 10.1 beta with GPU acceleration.
I could open the start menu but no program would run.