Such attempts are often called "Brute-force attacks" and the daemon process responds very quickly to such patterns and blocks offending IP's quickly.
To complement the ConfigServer Firewall (csf), we have developed a Login Failure Daemon (lfd) process that runs all the time and periodically (every X seconds) scans the latest log file entries for login attempts against your server that continually fail within a short period of time.
Other similar products run every x minutes via cron and as such often miss break-in attempts until after they've finished, our daemon eliminates such long waits and makes it much more effective at performing its task.
In my opinion, the best thing you can do at the server side is to run a network sniffing tool (such as tshark), however, by doing so the only additional information you can obtain is what ports exactly were scanned.
Perhaps this is caused by a wrong password specified in his Email client.
He might have read a tutorial about nmap and decided to check your server.
If he cannot tell what might have caused this reaction from your firewall, then he should be the one checking the security of his laptop and his network.
Before attempting any technical analysis, the best thing is probably to ask the client what did he do.
LFD is the "Login failure daemon" of your CSF-firewall, it's blocking IPs for failed login attempts.
(4) There are web applications that preforms port scan, but they only scan the host that uses the application, in order to give it a report about the status of this firewall.
I don't think any web app will allow one to preform a port scan of a different destination.
(5) There's no firewall that I know that preform a port scan on a machine other than one it's installed on.
You already have the abusing IP address in your firewall log, but you cannot tell from this whether the client did it on his own, a virus on his computer did it, or someone else from the same internal network as the client did it.
It seems he tried to login to your SMTP, but the login failed, and because of some failed login attempts, LFD blocked his IP.
There are some admins that prefer to configure their machines to ignore pings completely, but no firewall that I know considers pings as port scans.
As long as there are no other destination ports specified by LFD, this doesn't seem to be a portscan.