Since Windows 10 1709, the old SMB v1 protocol is not supported anymore by default, which is still used by several PCs or other network devices like routers providing a NAS.
Is your modem also the router that both pc's are connected to?
1- go start->control panel->device manager open it
And as far as I could see, both login names were set up on both PCs.
To make matters worse, I could connect to all of them from one login name on the client PC, but only some of them using another login name.
Once I added the same "Full name" to the host, everything worked as expected.
A typical device not supporting SMB 2 or newer are older FritzBox routers (popular in Germany), and if you try to access a USB hard disk attached to act as a NAS, you'll be unable to reach the router trying to connect to it.
If things are still not working, click the Change advanced sharing settings on the left and evaluate these settings.
I had a similar problem and ended up being that the user was accessing a network share with another user credential (mapped network drive)
http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/13197/map-a-network-drive-from-xp-to-windows-7/
As a result, a popup is shown to ask what kind of network this is.
Restart your PC and try accessing the device again.
It will always be a Public network there, and windows 8 won't ask what network you have.)
I had what I THOUGHT was the same user name on the XP (host) machine, but couldn't connect to certain folders on it.
My guess is that the problem was caused because some folders had been created by one user on the host machine, and others (that I couldn't access) were created by the other.
removing the user credential from the credential manager in control panel fixed the problem.
Follow these steps to re-enable it and access such devices again.
It turns out that although the "Full name" was the same on both PC (in Admin, Local Users and Groups, Users), the "Name" was different.
I had something similar, but I could connect to SOME shared folders, but not others on a single client PC.
However, while searching i found another useful resource which has several steps list other then the one above; so if you wish you may try this at http://appuals.com/best-fix-steps-fix-error-0x80004005/
4- you will see many adapters named Microsoft 6to4.
If so, their update probably reset everything to defaults causing windows 7 to detect a new network.
Note that SMB v1 might have been uninstalled on older Windows machines aswell.
Beyond the above solutions solving generic / classic issues with this error code, another new issue can cause 0x80004005.
If chosen for Public network, it will be very restricted.
By adding the user name for the client machine on the host machine, I got access to all the shared files.