eBGP makes your border routers learn about best routes to reach each prefix on Internet.
In both cases an internal routing protocol is needed to propagate internal routes (in one case including external links, in one case not).
iBGP will let all your internal routers know about those external prefixes.
If R1 anounces a prefix with its local interface as a source, either:
- the network is too big and the OSPF limitation is reached
Yes, it is easier to provide a default route to the eBGP routers, but that is not always appropriate, either.
You normally split a huge network in smaller areas.
By other hand, eBGP is between routers on different AS, is on the way that internet works.
But in some sample diagrams I noticed, for example, R9 and R8 could be an iBGP router but not eBGP router also.
R4 for instance should know that some prefixes are preferred through R1, even if it's directly connected to R2.
On your question, you said that why routers on the same AS some time need to learn routes learned by BG, i guess, because BGP works with the major posibilities of some routing protocols, it can be used to control the way that traffic flow on your AS: maybe you are a transit AS connected to different ISP, Providers an so on, then you can control the path that traffic get to reach some networks, and with that, saving money(maybe your L2 providers have different prices), providing the less congested link to some ISP, use the fastest link to leave your AS, and some other scenarios.
R3 and R4 also iBGP routers in order to communicate.
iBGP does usually not use internal routing protocol directly.
A big reason is that you want to redistribute your IGP routes into BGP, but you don't want to redistribute the BGP routes into your IGP; this can cause routing loops.
iBGP is for internal use on an AS, is entablished between routers on the same AS.
BGP also uses a standard TCP connection to exchange route information.
Because iBGP uses underlying IGP, I see no use in adding a iBGP router.
What may be the point in defining a router as only iBGP?
IMHO there is no need for iBGP as an IGP like in the 2nd case.
You normally split big networks in smaller areas which are easier to maintain.