Scroll down the right side, click on "Additional mouse options"
Basically how you'd expect it to work in the first place.
In Windows 10, if you click on Window icon in bottom left corner then go to
There is a check box to turn off touch pad if USB mouse is attached.
http://support.asus.com/Download.aspx?SLanguage=en&m=smart+gesture
Just disabling it will only work until you shut down your computer.
This is a permanent turning it off every time you reboot if you have a USB mouse attached.
To work with Windows 10 you need Smart Gesture 4.0.5 or 4.0.6.
I tried to install the Smart Gesture app from ASUS, but it failed in
and in window that opens (Synaptics Control Panel),
first installing ATK, updates for that are for Win 8 not 7.
ASUS B53J converted from Win7ProX64 to Win10Pro (the consumer-end upgrade, not
Just installed 4.0.6 on my Asus Zenbook UX31A and it works perfectly.
   /Settings/Devices/Mouse & Touch Pad/Additional Mouse Options/Mouse Properties (this popup window comes up behind main window)....
The USB mouse will still work, but the touchpad is now deactivated.
it's not about the driver, Just enable back vertical scroll feature from synaptics touch pad setting, that's it, just done that successfully
Popup shows a screen named Mouse Properties" that now says LENOVA, and identifies the touch pad as "Wheel mouse on PS/2 Port 3"
These are the only ones designed to work with Windows 10.
For ASUS, just uninstall existing Smart Gesture software/drivers from Control Panel and install the latest version for Windows 10 from here
In the latest Preview version, it is possible to disable the touchpad via the control panel based on whether or not a USB input device is connected.
3) Now back in the "LENOVA" window, press "Disable", and click ok in the warning popup.
It has auto disable of the touchpad when an USB mouse is present, the disable button (Fn+F9) works, the multi finger gestures works...it has even specific gestures for Windows 10 related to Cortana or other Windows 10 features