If you don't want them all synchronized to each other, however, this is not the best way to go.
When I was doing this kind of thing, I learned that it's a lot more engaging/time-efficient to actually just go through the files yourself in your free time, over the course of a couple weeks.
As I mentioned above, though, it'll take a long time, say, about a day for 5GB of files.
Create an md5sum of each file, duplicates md5sums suggest (but doesn't guarantee) duplicate files.
You can tell the difference between things way better than your computer can.
And on another note, Crashplan does what you were doing before, but in a much more organized, non-versioning-problem way.
If headers (EXIF, ID3, …) or metadata (owner) differ, they will not be linked.
Hard links only perform deduplication if the entire file is identical.
When you have a chance of using a file system with block deduplication support (ZFS, btrfs, …) use that instead.
Well, if you have the ability, you can set up a deduplicating filesystem and put your backups on that.
I am very fond of the offline (aka batch) dedup support of btrfs, which supports extent-level deduplication and does not constantly consume huge amounts of memory (as ZFS online dedup).
Another possibility, presuming the machines you're backing-up will support it, is to use something like rsync.
If you don't agree, then I suggest EasyDuplicateFinder.
Deduplicating filesystems include lessfs, ZFS, and SDFS.
Deduplication also has the advantage that files can be modified by the user without the other copy noticing (which might not be applicable in your case, but in others).
For example, if you have the same JPEG in several places, but with different EXIF tags on each version, a deduplicating filesystem would only store the image data once.
If you rsync from A to B, then from C to B, then from D to B, etc, exact duplicates (ie, by filename) will be eliminated (and synchronized between the machines you're backing up).
See https://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Deduplication for an excellent discussion.
This will not only deduplicate whole files, but also similar pieces of files.