And if you are familiar with C, it makes a decent scripting environment.
Unlike Cygwin, SUA is an environment subsystem that runs on top of the Windows kernel, at the same level as the Win32 subsystem.
I originally began using it as an interactive way to learn C, but now use it for much more.
It is quickly becoming widely supported by many third-party applications.
But now there's a 'headless' version of Windows Server it'll have to get a lot stronger in this respect.
They are missing some options & functionality that a "power user" might want.
Lastly, if you want to wring the most out of Windows, avoid the "Home" versions.
Various Linux GUIs have one or more of these abilities, but you cannot rely on them across various Linux installations.
It includes several Gnu utilities that are simply nice to have on Windows that aren't standard.
Think of Windows as a superset of Linux, because that's basically what it is:  All the techniques and utilities you use in Linux will translate directly if you use the same programs.
On the other hand, you can always do these things in any modern Windows (eg since Windows 2000), so you are free to focus on the problem at hand.
These tools play nicer with windows than cygwin because you live within the windows cmd shell.
One of the first programs I install on Windows is Ch Shell from SoftIntegration.
From my somewhat limited experience of the Linux prompt it seems that Linux works that way from the ground up, whereas Windows has always been a GUI and any command line functionality was largely a hangover from MS-DOS days.
If you're still contemplating a Unix-like environment, take a look at the Subsystem for UNIX-based Applications from Microsoft.
Launchy will give you very easy single-keystroke launching of applications.
It still won't be better than bash, but it's better than the abomination that is cmd.exe
It can access the .Net framework, so you can build just about anything with it.
From the cmd shell you can use you favourite unix tools by using Gnu Win32 or unxutils.
On the other hand, Windows provides many new and rich shortcuts and techniques not available in Linux.
Regarding the command line things have got a lot better in terms of funtionality with XP SP3, Vista and 7.