I would actually recommend 8GB and running 64 bit version of OS- both Exchange and SQL should be provided with a good amount of RAM.
The setup will run fine, but along with the rest of the commenters, it's only really a test box.
Don't expect to learn how to administer them from a FAQ.
Is this a server for you to play with and test things out on, or is it going to be a production server?
Another caveat - Windows 2008 will run, but I believe Windows 2008 R2 is 64-bit only so you will need a different machine if you want to run that.
It's hosted in a data-centre and supports 8 users/mailboxes just fine.
As others are saying, it should be fine for testing or if only used by a few users.
It's very noticeable when I remote desktop onto it how slow it is compared to our other servers, but for accessing webmail or email via Outlook/other clients it's not noticeable.
As far as admin guides, IIS, Exchange, and SQL are really their own topics and you are probably going to have to get separate manuals for the latter two at least.
I've never run both SQL and Exchange on the same box.
Please consider that this processor is a single-core, 64-bit-capable chip that cannot hardware-enabled virtualisation and may be limited by the amount of memory that can be added.
If you are only going to load them and never really use them, 4GB might work, but IMHO there is no reason to put less than 8GB on a server now with the price of RAM.
The hardware was only a celeron and it was never under 75% CPU usage, and a few times a month would max out at 100% leaving the website painfully slow to use.
If you're planning on using it in any kind of production capacity you need something a bit beefier.
One of our clients used to run a busy website (500,000 visitors a month) with a busy forum (an average day a little under 1,000 posts with 5 years of history) on SQL Server 2000 and Windows 2003.
They're both memory hogs, they can both use the disk heavily.
I'm sure you'll be able to get the code list you mention running on the box but I wouldn't expect it to be particularly fast.
We also have a Small Business Server 2003 running Exchange on a P4 2.4Ghz with 1GB RAM.
Granted, the O/S and SQL Server are older versions than you're looking at, but since we took over and moved the website onto a dual Xeon server they haven't had a slow website (occasionally, the CPU spikes at around 25%, but only for a second - they're still running SQL2000 and Win2003, but we did upgrade the forums software which is a lot more efficient.
From the stats, this looks like a second hand box, so I'm guessing you don't plan on upgrading the hardware.