Then you'd have to pay for the SFP/SFP+ (or Xenpak/X2), which are at least $1,000 each end for medium range transceivers, plus a fraction of a switch line card, say $2,000.
You need permits to dig, you need to hire a construction team, you need to have them bring out the big orange spools of plastic.
You'd also need an SFP/SFP+ capable switch/router at your end, say $2,000-$5,000 or more.
But, if you're in an area with that much outlay already, you can probably get 50Mbps cable; try it out first and see if it's inadequate before you spring for crazy upgrades.
FIOS dynamic IP - Up to 50 Mbps / 20 Mbps   $154.99
This is not something you would ever, ever do on your own.
I have a satellite office that gets it's internet from a local cable company (Cox) and we get 15/3 for about what a T1 would cost (though it's less reliable).
Suppose you're some sort of crazy nerd fellow and you live in an area that's absolutely covered in fiber optics and network facilities.
Fiber to the home would require laying a fiber optic cable, direct to you, over the "last mile".
They can tell you how much it'll cost to get set up.
Lot of times your regular "consumer" ISPs have high end data plans available, in which case the cost would probably be minimal.
Then we get into the heavy cost, the actual carrier and support costs, which would be well into five figure per year.
There would also be engineering and project management costs too.
What kind of cost / infrastructure would be needed to hook in somewhere and get you're internet connection directly from a local datacenter?
If you didn't know the carrier and had no discount structure in place then I'd suggest that simply running shielded good high performance (OM3) bare fibre from their switches to your home would cost in the tens of thousands of dollars, perhaps as much as $50,000-$75,000.
You need to talk to a local ISP and get a quote on a high-end connection.
So to recap, I'd suggest between $25,000 and $150,000-$250,000 depending on carrier, location, service level and speed.
Now, a normal leased line might be worth looking into.
Cable and DSL use pretty much the same equipment for home/business connections.