zoneedit has been having problems with their mail forwarding for almost a week now.
Since about 3 days (without changing any DNS records), my email does not arrive anymore on my gmail account.
Generally, forwarding all email from one location to another can be a bad idea, particularly to somewhere like Google.
I experimented with changing the forwarding to point to several completely different destination accounts with no luck.
I'd recommend setting up something like Google Apps instead, if you would like Google to be picking up your email for your domain.
Have you watched the maillogs to see what happens when the mail gets forwarded to Google?
The domain (website) is still active and has not yet expired.
I've already placed a couple of tech support calls with the company that owns Zoneedit, they're aware of the problem and tell me the guys that manage the server in Vancouver, BC are working on the problem.
What can be the reason that the email does not arrive anymore?
I noticed it when emails sent to my forwarded domain didn't arrive and people asked me what was up.
When Google sees that, they see it as coming from YOUR domain, and not the originator.
It's very likely that Google is blocking your email.
Is there some sort of mail policy introduced (like SPF?)
For this purpose I use the ZoneEdit MailForward function.
It troubles me that it has been going on this long and still hasn't been resolved.
I have 1 other domains where emails are forwarded in a similar way (to the same gmail account), but they do still arrive.
As for an SPF record, I'm not sure how strict Google is about SPF records for incoming email.
If you're getting any spam at your domain's email address, it all gets forwarded to Google as well.
Then I used telnet to connect to port 25 of mail.zoneedit.com and test the connection and found that the mail server is rejecting connections due to it being unable to do a reverse address lookup on the IP address of the system attempting to connect, presumably a mail server attempting to send a message to the mail forwarder.
I have my own (personal) domain where all email sent to this domain is forwarded to my Gmail account.
However, if it was the SPF being the problem you would likely be getting a bounceback.