http://registrar.verisign-grs.com/whois/iframe/help.html?ppath=www.verisigninc.com/products-and-services/domain-name-services/whois&
When you request WHOIS info for google.com, it searches for "google.com" in all records, not anchoring the pattern to the end as you expect.
You're asking for all record types, rather than just domain records.
By default, when you query Verisign from the domain example.com, Whois performs a very broad search of the string "example.com" in several different objects including the domain name, the registrar name and the nameservers.
The short answer to your question, assuming you are using the debian/ubuntu whois library, is to use
My guess is that dnsstuff and godaddy just have probably more tuned heuristics.
Do a whois query with an equal sign at beginning just before domain name.
When you peform a WHOIS query, the WHOIS tool first sends a WHOIS query to Verisign (hostname whois.crsnic.net) and extract the referral from the the response.
And it depends on the WHOIS client and which servers it is configured to use.
Instead of google.com it sends to Verisign the full query "domain google.com".
You have to explicitly pass the -h flag because Whois attempts to guess the hostname to query from the query, but it will fail because it won't recognize the query "domain google.com" as a valid domain.
See Why there's junk in your whois results, and how you can get rid of it for more info.
Use a whois host that only returns 'domain" results
What you see is just pure vanity nameservers created at the registry, as a useless prank (no technical consequences).
You can refine the query by specifying a keyword, as described in the Verisign documentation.
I did some research a couple years ago about setting up an internal WHOIS service (I work at a university, so we have lots of little fiefdoms and lots of networks) and from what I could tell, there was very little consistent structure in the data formats, so clients have to employ lots of heuristics to figure out referrals and such.