Assuming I know what the distribution is, how do I apply that knowledge to determine the max # of visitors in a given interval based on max hits/second?
What I’m looking for (I think) is something like a formula.
The problem arises when I get questions from marketing like, “for our next advertising campaign, how many visitors can we handle?” They work with numbers like, “2 million people will see our ad.
The site would be overloaded (100×60×15 < 200,000∕2).
If you don’t know, that’s fine as I can re-ask this part specifically in a separate question.
90% of the visitors hit one page, 5% hit two pages, and 5% hit more than two pages)?
But what if the visitors were still spread across an hour, except the majority of visitors hit the site in the first 15 minutes?
In reality each visitor will make one or more hits on the site.
It is trivial to extrapolate this number to 360,000 hits/hour (100×60×60).
As a final consideration, this all involves a great deal of guesswork.
To take this into account, can I simply take the mean average of hits/visitor, then divide accordingly?
I know that any more than, say, 100 hits/second causes the server to overload and perform unacceptably.
The situation is that I’ve already done load testing to determine the breaking point of the server.
This modelling will (in theory) give us a max number, but how much do you back off that number before passing it along?
Until now I’ve assumed that one visitor means one hit.
Based on past experience we know about 10% of those people will click through, so 200,000 visitors will hit the website.
What are your thoughts on expressing the uncertainty of the result?
So what are typical distributions for websites at both ends of the spectrum (sites with even distributions and sites with highly concentrated distributions)?
In my specific case, I am working with websites, however the question is more general than that.
Can we handle that?” If those 200,000 visitors were evenly distributed across an entire hour, the numbers above tell us that the server could handle the load fine.
The answer clearly depends on the distribution of hits.
Or do I have to take into account the distribution of page views per visitor (e.g.