If you can do that, them you can open a shell and try mounting your external drive and copying your data off that way.
Put in in your Mac (I am hoping you have a disc drive), and boot from it.
Seriously - and I'm not one to initially gravitate to commercial product for a fix - but DW is a really great tool with a great rep in the Mac world.
On a Mac you have a few options, but I'll summarize the easiest two I can think of:
2) If you have access to another Mac (and a firewire), you can put the "broken" one in Target disc mode by holding T during boot.
2)Since you booted to the hard drive, it's possibly you can just mount your external drive from the recovery shell, then copy your data off there.
Just went through a similar fix on a 5 yr old Alum PB G4.
I was fortunately able to copy my home dir (home) off the disk when I had it hooked to my Linux box before I gave it to my friend.
Then, through the file browser you should be able to locate all the files you want to back up, copy them to the external drive (Linux supports write to most formats other than HFS [apple]).
You'll see a FireWire icon on your screen, and then you should be able to mount it on the working machine and back everything up.
I had 'badblocks' (read) checked my disk from my GNU/Linux (main) system and when I saw no bad sectors/blocks reported I figured it was a serious directory issue (disk was unbootable) which indeed it turned out to be.
If whatever Linux you download doesn't read the Mac partition, do a quick Google search to enable HFS+ read on it.
1) Download (on another computer obviously) a Linux Live Disc.
PS Extracting a disk from an Alum PB is really (really) NOT fun..lol
For peace of mind, I'd see if you could find another Mac which had DiskWarrior on it and try it on your disk.
If the drive truly is shot you may run into errors when copying off, but that is to be expected.
Really, before I'd do anything with a disk problem again (on a Mac), I would not take action unless I knew the result of a DiskWarrior test.
I was fortunate that I had a Senior Admin friend at a school district who tested and fixed my disk for me.
DW not only fixed many directory issues, but recovered a significant amount of disk space on the disk.