So, changing it in production without carefully testing the entire app is dangerous.
I need to better understand the possible negative repercussions of adjusting these parameters.
Generally you want to set these parameters BEFORE you go live.
It sounds like you do  not know alot about database tuning since you mention response time instead of query plans.
Most DBAs don't grasp the difference in concepts between fix and design.
The reason it is not recommended to change this parameters is that they have db-wide impact on the optimizer - so when you change it to tune a specific query, it will likely have some impact on many other queries.
If they are bad, I leave them bad and tune the queries.
What is the correct way to set the optimizer index cost adj parameter for Oracle.
If you change them after you go live then you risk change other queries that were tuned to bad settings.
They lead to more full table scans and bad queries.
If you want to use both system statistics and the optimizer parameters, google it up, Jonathan Lewis wrote about it (sorry, the site doesn't let me post more than one link)
I am currently only seeing only an upside, much improved application performance and no downside.
Common queries are reduced from 2 seconds to 200ms.
As a developer I have observed huge performance improvements as this parameter is lowered.
For batch processing the settings you want to start with are very different.
The defaults for these 2 parameters are terrible for OLTP systems which are the most common type of database.
After you are live, you are fixing and that is when you need to be careful changing these parameters.
I tinker with these a little, but those settings give me the best overall results 99% of the time on an OLTP.
However, I do NOT touch them after we go to production.
BTW, a good place to start with these parameters (note BEFORE YOU GO TO PRODUCITON AND ONLY IF YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING!)
There are lots of warnings on the net that lowering this value will cause dire issues with the database,  but no detail is given on what will start going wrong.
Before you go live in you are in design and development phase.