Finally, split your servers up as well, I've gone for location/role which seems to have worked quite well.
I tend to design AD structures with 'making it easy to manage' in mind, rather than reflect physical company structure, however both are often the same.
Users - Split theses into departments, but also with an area/s for temp or agency staff.
If you did it the other way, it would mean you would have to link your policies at multiple OUs, which involves unnecessary work.
by Department, as it would generate extra admin overhead without really giving much in return.
Here are the core tenets of Microsoft's recommendation for AD logical design:
(Don't forget about group policy application on the site objects, either.
Think about each of these considerations as you design, prioritizing them as recommended.
You have to be careful about cross-domain GPO application when you link GPOs at sites, but if you're a single domain environment you can get a lot of great functionality out of linking GPOs to sites.
I'd always split users, computers and groups into separate OUs, for the simple reason that it makes it easier to manage.
Computers - Split these into location and sub locations.
Nesting groups is perfectly fine, and again, make management of AD much easier.
Work through some sample scenarios with it-- I find that it's great for loading software that has "site-specific" settings in it or providing specific logon scripts to users when logging-on to computers in certain physical locations, by way of loopback group policy processing.)
It's a great way to shake out problems in a design.
This means that you can apply settings to one location or office - for example a different proxy server, or different anti virus settings (of course only if the AV management program uses AD)- without reorganising, and hopefully won't have to open the can of worms that is loopback processing.
If you are applying most of your policies at department level, use Department\Location\Object
Computers; organize according to geographic location
I've also found it useful not to use the built in users or computers groups, not any technical issues, but just so that you can easily see where things shouldn't be.
Before I even DCPROMO my first domain controller I typically draw out the proposed structure on paper or a whiteboard and walk through potential usage scenarios to see if my design "holds up".
If you are applying most of your policies at location level, use Location\Department\Object
If you have no compelling reason for a specific AD structure, then design your AD from an administrative point of view.
The other answers in this thread are very good too though.
I think, if I had to redesign my AD again there are a few things that I would do differently, but I have found that :
It's easy to change things later (comparatively), and you'll never "get it right" on the first try.
Location for these won't be as important as no doubt people will move about.
The resulting OU structure would look something like this:
I don't really see any need for further divisions here, e.g.
Splitting by location however would enable you to implement delegation at each site.
Think about where you are going to be applying policies.
Ie OfficeComputers/LondonOffice/Room103 (Finance).