The d-pad is mapped to the first four buttons and the axes are all switched.
This way the XBox controller will behave like an "enhanced" generic USB controller and any game logic won't need to know anything about the specific controller type.
I don't see a lot of people appreciating you doing that to their systems.
The reason why I prefer the xboxdrv style of controller mapping is that the mapping is pretty much the same for any other random USB controller.
It would be better for your plugin to simply detect what OS its running on and adjust the inputs accordingly.
Is there an alternative driver that can be installed?
The newer versions of the standard Linux X11 input also match exactly the xboxdrv mappings which is another reason that I prefer it.
http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/input/xpad.txt
I'm developing a browser plugin to provide joystick access to all browsers on all platforms.
I'm using xboxdrv on Linux, which has a pretty decent mapping and is very similar to the standard Windows XBox driver mapping.
I want to be able to assume the basic axes and buttons will be mapped correctly (or at least consistently) and then use the extra buttons and axes for extra functionality.
On windows XP using the default XBox Controller driver the order of the x and y axes are swapped.
What I want to know is what drivers do I need to install on each OS to get XBox 360 Controllers to register exactly the same as the do under Linux with xboxdrv.
So installing a browser plugin would also install this driver, which would override the current driver and screw up the button settings in every program that uses the controller.
On OS X using Colin Munro's OS X Driver, the mapping is totally different though.
On Linux, I believe the standard driver is the xpad one (which is part of the kernel):
But if there was, it would map the buttons differently.
The two primary axes are the same and the first 5 buttons are the same.
Let's assume there was; I have no idea one way or the other myself.
The issue that I'm running into is that OS X doesn't seem to provide Xbox 360 joystick input without installing some extra drivers, and even when those drivers are installed they map the buttons and axes completely differently than Windows and Linux.
You should only install drivers if the device would not work at all without them.