But drives don't have to be given a drive letter - they can be mapped to a folder on another drive.
Drive letter are of course limited, since they stop at Z.
This is a sad limitation for Windows when testing a new build using GPT scheme.
Loosely called as "partitions", means 4 paritions.
An extended partition can theoretically contain an infinite number of logical partitions, and so while Windows only has drive letters up to z: (plus some other characters) this is not a limit on the number of partitions you can create, even if you can't assign a drive letter to them.
(For example, the Windows bootloader must be on a primary partition.)
Each can hold a "primary" partition, or one can be used to create an "extended" partition which can contain any number of sub-partitions (often called "logical drives").
If the drive is partitioned using GPT, windows can only handle 2 for the following reason.
When Windows sees this EFI partition, it counts as 1 primary.
So no there is no hard limit on Windows on the number of drivers.
As the alphabet a and b are used for floppy drives, only c to z is available for use.
The "extendable" partition as logical drive can only go with the letters a to z.
Hard disks can be split into four primary partitions, or one of these can be configured as an extended partition.
On a disk using the traditional MBR format, the partition table has four slots.
When GPT is employed, each primary partition has another hidden partition to go with it called EFI.
These are all "primary" partitions (to use the MBR terminology).
In summary, it is said as 3 primary partitons and one "extendable" partition.
However, any one of these 4 partitions, ie one and only one of them can be extended further into "partitions" or logical drives.
From Technet: Reviewing Storage Limits: Local File Systems:
Extended partitions are basically a workaround for the small size of the MBR partition table, and there are limitations on what they can be used for.
The newer GPT disk format supports many more partitions — technically unlimited, I think, but operating systems impose a limit of 128.