But if you expect to need more than one server, the PDU can be a nice option.
I log in, start the applet, start the server and see it boot in the applet.
Secondly you need to read up on some command line commands (changing directories, creating users, apt system - for updates).
Without a management card, you are limited to what you can do after the OS started.
I use one on my supermicro stuff (from supermicro).
The switched PDU is fairly pricey compared to a eBay 2850.
Download Putty.exe (google it) and you are good to go.
Linux) administration, using remote text access such as provided via ssh.
For ordinary everyday Operating System level (i.e.
Yes, it will be annoying to learn all the commands and flags in the beginning, but it is quicker, and less painful than working daily via a remote graphical administration in my experience.
First of, if this is a production system, I would caution you to not install a GUI (it will make things easier initially) but as far as resources go, you will be better off without a GUI (I'm assuming tho you installed with a GUI already).
I've been able to support remote systems in exotic locations using ssh for routine administration on high-latency (1000ms) 64kps or less network connections.
You have a steep learning curve, but this is the best way to get started, learning with a machine secured behind the firewall.
If you need more to do this for more than one server, another technique would be an IP KVM combined with a networked, switching PDU.
To clarify, to remotely administer the most basic level of hardware (hard reboots, BIOS settings / update) you want a "Lights Out Management" (LOM) card, which is an embedded server with its own processor on a card in the server, or a KVM-switch type solution.
What you need is a management daughterboard that has a HTTP based interface.
One reason to have more than one IP on a server, btw.
I connect ot ist using port 80 / 443, and then authenticate and have control over the machine.
The daughtercard has it's own IP address which is done through one of the server board ethernet ports (which it electrically piggibacks on) or a separate port.
Gives me a web interface with a java applet for remote keyboard, mouse, media (like discs).