I was afraid that my original SD card was corrupted, but everything works fine with the original.
When I create the image and try to open the image to see if everything is okay, I get the following message: "The disk image file is corrupted".
I ran the Disk Imager in compatibility mode with windows 7 (I have windows 10), but I get the same results.
", rather than difficulties with a specific way of doing it, ie.
I really don't care about the wasted space right now, I just want my project to work on any raspberry with the cloned SD card.
I've been using rpi-clone every day for a few weeks to clone my running RPi3 running Raspian Jessie.
The only thing I would say is that I don't believe you should be expecting a backup from one version of Raspberry Pi to work in a different version.
Also, the original SD card is 8Gb and I am making the copy in a 16Gb card.
I'm going to assume that your real question is "I need to "clone" my Raspberry's SD card, so I can send it to a friend.
I then switch off, take out both cards, store the original and boot using the clone.
I rotate 3 cards in this way, so that I always have a safe card.
Seeing a lot of posts about how to do this, I decided to use Win32 Disk Imager.
Also, just because you have taken an image, you need to restore it in order to see that it works.
It takes about 10 minutes to clone to a second Micro SD card.
I found that Win32 Disk Imager was unreliable: I had 2 micro SD cards, both 16GB, same make and model and even bought at the same time, but the image of one was slightly bigger by a few bytes than from the other, and so it could not be restored to the slightly smaller card.
I ignored that just to see if my raspberry worked with that SD card, but it didn't.
So instead I turned to rpi-clone, which I believe would be a solidly reliable answer for you.
I had also occasionally found that images would not restore, even onto a smaller card.
So I'm suggesting my answer to "What am I doing wrong?"
I need to "clone" my Raspberry's SD card, so I can send it to a friend.