If it is a true OEM key, then yes you will need to get a copy of OEM windows in order to be able to activate it.
in turn as the computer's booting up, and see if you're able to spot a system recovery option.
I'm not sure what it stands for, but you can reuse it on a retail install.
you have to download a OEM iso (it's legal if you have your own license)
Initially I typed the key in the setup and later after the installed vista was running for the first time I got an invalid key message.
I have used the following methods more than once on other people's laptops and managed to activate Vista every single time:
or better solution: if your pc has a recovery partition use that to "reinstall" windows
YES you can install (upgrade) with your chosen version providing the install/upgrade sees the previous version installed on your computer.
After that, clicking next and I get a genuine activation complete.
Just today I installed a "Vista multiedition x64 with sp2 english" ISO I got off the internet from getmyos.com on OEM HP desktop.
We do this at my work by buying OA machines, installing our Sysprepped images that contain all of the software pre-installed, then activate the computer using the key it came supplied with.
I had wiped all the stuff on the drive for this random ISO install and I think maybe the PC stored and passed oem info when the activation is done using the phone activation method.
An OEM install is a PREinstall -- An OEM has purchased a VOLUME license to PREinstall copies on their computers.
Maybe other countries have different rules about OEM phone activation
But when I tried activate by phone, and called the number, I had to type in a long installation ID generated after having clicked next and then received a long code in return from the automated voice.
I had forgotten all passwords and did a clean install using that iso.
As for your recovery partition (if it is indeed one), try pressing each function key (F9 etc.)
The PC I had was an old hp which had Vista home basic.