Why can't I type my username & password into a SSH client, then it log on to both SSH and SFTP?
The only thing you will have to do is unlock your private key a single time when you start Pageant.
Why does PuTTY & SFTP has to be logged in separately?
Putty and SFTP are two separate programs which open one connection each, and both connections have to be authenticated seperately.
For better or worse, putty's tools are individual executables, so that doesn't work.
SSH for a shell terminal, for secure FTP or X session over SSH, they all rely on the same underlying protocol: SSH.
When you install your public key onto the box you are logging in to, you will get neither the username prompt, nor the password prompt.
This is easier than using the sudo command, which causes some problems from time to time.
Then login to your heart's content with no prompting necessary.
If you really want to share a connection for everything, check out the official ssh client: link text
Both use HTTP, but they open up a connection each.
This is akin of logging in to SO with Firefox and MSIE at the same time.
I have servers where I have to be logged in both as a normal user and as root.
Which application you use for your session, it does not matter.
I just make sure I have VERY DIFFERENT prompts, of course......
As for pageant, I use its accompanying application, which is creating the key pairs, allowing me to copy'n'paste to the ~/.ssh/autorized_keys file.
Pageant is a great utility to handle the passwords of your keys, and many programs will use pageant to make the login seamless to you.
Does this kind of tool exist or it is programatically imposible?
In putty and pscp, you need to go into your connection manager and set your username for each connection.
Also, you can have several SSH-based connections to a single server, and it does not matter, just as for any other TCP/IP protocol.
As others have suggested, it's possible to set up ssh keys to mitigate the password typing, but in the end, that results in establishing multiple connections.
I hate typing my password twice to transfer multiple files.
There are commercially available tools that share a single connection between ssh and scp/sftp.
I use PuTTY all day long at work, as well as FileZilla, which is another SSH-based client software that can take advantage of Pageant.