The important thing is that you tailor the appropriate monsters for the character at that level.
Here is a good resource to start with: Open Game Systems
Thats just a sample with sample values, my idea here is that you can replace both offset and factor and use this with any weapon, skill, ability, scroll, shield or monsters or what ever... very easy to calculate and scale for you.
If you want to include levels in your game design, there are some considerations.
The tables themselves often feel a bit arbitrary once you write them down.
This is how the table would look from those numbers (Level 0 starts at 0 exp):
Is there are repository somewhere that records these from various games?
And very easy to put into tables for quick lookup.
That being said, a guide to making your own table should consider how long a character should take at a given level to progress, and set the XP values of monsters at that level.
My algoritme would be: level = (previous level * factor) + offset
I am designing a simple game and am looking for some help designing different level/ranks.
For instance, starting from "Novice" to "Intermediate" to "Master".
I think what makes a good game is the unique idea and design, so no real "rule" should be copied.
But as @DrDeth writes, there are plenty Wikis and sites dedicated to that.
Secondly I would figure out some "double up" kinda value.
However, levels and rankings are usually tied into the base system used in the game and so when designing your own you may find it more helpful to look at role playing systems as a whole.
Try to ask more detailed/specific questions in this forum, as we will probarbly be better at solving problems than supplying complete solutions.
For each of the games you've mentioned, there are extensive wikis and sites dedicated to them where you can find info on the rankings, levels and requirements.
To give you something usefull or idea to something I have the following suggestion for a very primitive level guide (feel free to copy my idea or build upon it, thats why I write it here):
Levels give players a sense of achievement that comes in a nicely wrapped box (as opposed to level-less game systems).