The advantage of the POP protocol is its simplicity and clarity of operation.
So, if you sent 1 message from each of 3 devices, all 3 clients would see all 3 emails in their SENT folders.
In the alternative, copy all emails (or an easily remembered subset, such as earlier than a certain date) on the IMAP server on one computer, then move them offline on the other later at your convenience, to a "mirror" offline folder.
Microsoft is now pushing Outlook.com which is a multitenant Exchange Server for the masses.
On one computer, COPY the emails to be saved on the IMAP server to the offline folder.
To wit: How keep a permanent collection of your emails regardless of the policies and configurations of email providers.
Instead, an IMAP server is meant to be the holder of your emails.
If you want to archive your mail, your best is to find something dedicated to that mission.
Let's say you have two computers, one main and one for backup or a laptop for travel use, or a different OS, in addition to a smartphone.
The simplest way to replicate the SENT folder is to Blind Copy (BCC) anything you send back to yourself.
Hopefully, IMAP will evolve to allow all the features of both POP and IMAP so that all mail is downloaded to your client, including all folders - not just the more recent emails which is how vanilla IMAP setups work today.
Who knows when Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, GoDaddy, 1&1, Comcast, ATT, Verizon, et al, will change their retention rules.
And, some (or even all) emails on the IMAP server need to be preserved and saved in an offline folder.
Check to ascertain the copy operation was successful.
In this scenario, your PC's might fetch email using POP to download and archive all your emails from the server.
We already have such beasts in the form of Exchange Server and also the confusing swamp known as Lotus Notes.
It is your email client that stores a copy of sent emails in the SENT folder of that device, if the client options were set to do so.
Since the sending email client knows nothing of your other devices and most likely cannot connect to them - let alone their email clients, your SENT emails stay on the sending machine, unbeknownst to your other clients.
The most common shortcoming of the POP protocol is that it's a 1-way trip.
Only IMAP will fetch and replicate folders both ways.
Outlook's advanced rules mechanism can help fix that too by checking all new emails in which your address is on both the SENDTO and BCC fields.
Then set a designated folder, say saved-sent-from-imap in Local Folders.
All email that you BBC yourself with will end up in the inboxes of all your clients - not your local SENT folder.
The questioner has broached a most important topic that I've seen little written about.
Internet service providers like GoDaddy and others are now acting as 3rd parties who offer Exchange mail boxes to plebeians.
Using POP for your Outlook or Thunderbird account on your real computers and IMAP on your cutesy PDA's.
Also, any "reset", such as changing passwords, ISP accounts after a physical move, or migration to a new system (or even operating system upgrade) can result in mail on the server being lost.
E.g., an email account set up in Outlook to use POP downloads all your new mail on the server mail and stores them in a PST file on your local computer.
A newer protocol called IMAP (Internet Mail Access Protocol) attempts to allow multiple devices to see the same things no matter what device you are using.
That is, you want all machines to see what all machines have sent out - not just from the machine in front of you.
Android and Apple have multiple email clients that will handle IMAP.
It is important to save important emails in this manner, as occasionally IMAP servers can lose some (or even all) of the emails, so "synchronization" then results in possibly massive data loss.
The disadvantage of IMAP is that the definitions of how it works varies considerably between servers and email clients.
Then worry about synchronization at your leisure later.
The danger of what you are trying to achieve is that if the connection from the computer to the IMAP server fails, the sent message may be lost.
This said, a possible solution with Thunderbird is as follows: Set the email account to use its own folder (not Local Folders).
I have found that POP is deemed less secure by at least email providers (known to be true with Yahoo!
You also set the client to NOT delete the server mail immediately so that your devices using IMAP can still see your mail for a while.
The rules are also muddy as to what your clients will see and how much (and for how long) the server will keep your mail.
Your device's email client fetches email from the server and that's it.
Your IMAP email clients only synchronize a configured number of emails, not generally everything.
What you do is set the PC clients to "leave mail on server for x days".
This is normally done manually by you at the time you send a new email.
Edit: this way you won't have to delete the sent message from the phone; so you can't accidentally delete a message that is not moved to the local folder.
(imapsync may do this, compiled Windows versions available here; BaGoMa or other tools may also be pressed into service for this)
That way, my PC Outlook will eventually connect to and pull the new emails then instructs the server to delete any emails older then 90 days.
At best, many IMAP servers have quotas or old mail deletion policies that can result in data loss.
Both will mirror (i.e., synchronize or replicate) everything on the server with your local client and vice versa.
On some systems and servers, copy works only when offline, or with other restrictions.
Alas, both servers are very expensive, complex, and not for the everyday user.
Also, although IMAP is supposed to work fine when accessing from different machines at the same time, some implementations don't behave well.
Likewise for deleted emails in TRASH or saved emails in an ARCHIVE folder.
One way to get something close to the best of both worlds is to use both protocols if your server supports both.
The excellent K9 email client for Android has a configuration option to automatically add yourself to the BCC field on all emails you send.
This workaround still doesn't handle folders you may have created on the server.
You can always count on having all your mail using POP.
I suspect a similar effect could more easily be achieved by
Let's say you have 2 PC's (Wintel + Apple) and 2 PDA's (Android phone and tablet).
When a client connects to an email account via IMAP, the client and the server communicate both ways.
Since all your devices will then always get the new mail, regardless of protocol, you have effectively replicated your outbound emails with all your devices.
The whole point of IMAP is that the server contains an authoritative copy of the mail and that if clients store any messages at all they're simply caching them for other reasons (e.g.
Then, to manually assure synchronization, when saving only some emails on the second computer, promptly MOVE those SAME emails offline to the same offline folder.
In so doing, anything you send gets received back to you as another recipient.
What is needed is a methodology that incorporates the best of both POP and IMAP.
Unless you are a folder freak, you probably are most concerned about the SENT folder.
This is definitely a problem with Apple Mail, (in my opinion, Apple's worst software application in an otherwise superior OS package.)
Make sure that the IMAP Sent (whatever the actual name is) folder has "when getting new messages for this account, always check this folder" checked.
The problem with this is that each time an email is moved, there is the risk of program malfunction and thus data loss.
Then set a filter to move all messages from the IMAP Sent folder to saved-sent-from-imap.
This is a showstopper for professionals where most emails must ALWAYS be kept somewhere and you know where that.
Using the POP protocol, an email client like Outlook or Thunderbird simply downloads all emails received at the server in your name and then optionally deletes at the same time, deletes them later.
You could run your an IMAP server on your own PC (such as hMailServer) and then use a tool to just copy everything to it without deleting missing messages from the destination.
For example, email clients using IMAP do NOT usually download and keep ALL your emails.
This makes POP use much less attractive servers as a solution with this policy.
The mail you create and send to others is sent via an outbound SMTP server which does little more than forward your email to the rest of the world.
Like Microsoft Exchange or Lotus Notes, IMAP synchronizes the emails and folders on the client with those and the server.
You could probably abuse Thunderbird, Outlook, or many other clients into copying all new IMAP messages to local folders using their built-in rules/scripting/filter systems.