and represent a more shaman like / religious type of magic.
Now that I think of it again this is nothing new and most of the games probably mix it like this.
Correct me if I am wrong, but I do not feel as though Spells/Magic should be more powerful because someone has more physical muscles and capacity to lift more.
However, Strength is all but useless to a Wizard who casts spells from afar, and relies on Intelligence as their damage attribute.
Only those who seek to use the build would invest in STR - though.
Strength can more easily be an important statistic for Warrior and Rogue types, as they are both melee damage- and players tend to love stacking high damage.
I want to make Strength as attractive as Intelligence, to Wizard types than in stereotypical RPG's.
reagents and suchlike (which could be an interesting mechanic I guess), if you're going the class-based route (I have to admit,  I do have a soft spot for class-based systems) then another way of doing it might be to have certain spells or category of spells rely on an amplification of the caster's own strength
"Buff Conan Wizard" vs "Intelligent but Frail Wizard"
I have a game where, among many attributes, is Strength and Constitution.
The less intelligent wizard might be from a race like orc / goblins etc.
However, I would like to avoid this- as Hit Points are so incredibly important, every class will want to have a lot of them in any game you play.
What can I do to strength, to make it more appealing to wizard types, or any class that does not perform any melee combat?
In Ultima Online, Strength was used for hit points.
But if you per se want to have the strength modifier playing a big role in spellcasting then I would go with that way.
I have a plethora of ways in which INTELLIGENCE helps a WARRIOR type.
How can I find a balance between a "Buff Conan Wizard" vs "Intelligent but Frail Wizard" without introducing melee combat?
Well aside from making it an encumbrance issue re.
In Diablo II strength was a prerequisit for some items.
Some caster builds were highly reliant on items with min str requirement.
In almost all MMORPG's and in many RPG's, players stack constitution almost as much as their primary attribute.
It is the problem of the attribute STRENGTH helping a WIZARD type that is giving me so much difficulty.
But on the other hand an intelligent wizard might focus more on researching spells and complicating rituals and stuff.
I would probably mix the shaman's / priest's spellcasting ability with strength (like Defensive Casting from DnD 3.5 ability).
It makes sense to give Magic more power if the caster had a lot of fortitude or a overall healthy body, but that is already defined as Constitution.
I was able to find balance between a "Dumb Brute Warrior" vs "Intelligent Warrior".
Adding unique gameplay features or altering the traditional RPG style of play is more than welcome.