The two buildings are geographically separated by a Wireless Bridge spanning about 10 miles.
You might be able to try setting up the wireless access point to use a VPN within the office and route all connections over the VPN.
All computers and equipment inside the LAN are on the same subnet (its pretty small) and we have WiFi AP's in both locations providing Wired and Wireless access to the LAN.
You could 'double NAT' by installing a second wifi router with its upstream port connected to your company network in the location where your guests need wifi access.
The VPN would also be a valid option, but you would have an access point that is capable of handling a VPN.
I don't know the specifics of your network but with only one subnet, adding VLAN's and setting up a few ports on your switch (provided you have a managed switch that supports VLAN) to use that VLAN, it is not an invasive procedure.
Would really like some kind of magic drop in solution that can kind of piggy back on my LAN without really needing to do very many if any changes to the current set up.
Most routers already support a 'guest' wifi network that is isolated both from the main network and also isolated connected clients from each other.
Going with VLAN's would be best practice in my opinion.
I have a set up where my Cisco ASA is sitting in one facility, providing access to the Internet for two buildings.
The only other way i can think of without the details of your network, is adding a subnet on your router, directly routing that traffic to ie a second wan port.
I would, however, think that VLAN would be the better way to go about it.
Not exactly a traditional use of VPN, (keeping in, instead of out) but I think it would do what you need.
This should produce a similar result to setting up a VLAN but might be easier to configure.
I get that this could be possible at the facility with my Cisco if I messed with it and created VLANs etc... but then I would need to get it across my Bridge as well and don't think that would be possible without serious reconfiguration of everything.
Certainly a higher end router designed for commercial use will have this ability.
Given all the BYOD (Ipods, and SmartPhones etc...) coming into the office as well as Visiting reps etc... we would like to also provide a non-secure, device independent (the devices cannot see or communicate with each other), and LAN independent (the devices cannot see or use anything on the LAN) HotSpot that anyone could use for their Devices that gives them access to the Internet ONLY without needing a password.
Configured correctly that provides a high degree of isolation between guests and your company network.