These are all Dual or Quad core Intel machines that I have built myself, all with a minimum of 3GB of RAM.
technically - computers slow down due to heat and dust too.
If they've got < 5% disk free, then no amount of defragging will help, the disk will churn horribly.
However, on a semi-regular basis, people in my office start whining that their machine is "slow".
in my experience the lusers always whine, this is not a technical problem anymore friend.
More than often ( i am not saying this your case or generalizing, its just my case) these people were complaining  as an excuse.
And we really put a stop to needless whining through proper communication with managers and the users.
this is more of a people problem that you need to be clever to resolve.
I really don't want to go to the effort of reinstalling these machines, especially when they come whining about every 2 or 3 months about "slow".
Some other hints: I assume your users don't have admin rights on their boxes.
I have had similar experience as IT service delivery manager.
One final note on Disk defragging: Try to keep 20-25% space free on the disk.
If you want reinstall your desktops more often you can use clonezilla server(in my work im reinstaling about 100 PC every month in one nigth :)
It's sad bad true that many "slow computer" complaints are in fact only imagined, because people expect their computer to get slow over time since it is "common knowledge" that Windows will get slower all the time (and their spyware-laden home machines really do).
Ideally, get them to show you when it's being slow.
This lets the drive perform at optimum levels and means the defrag will complete in a reasonably fast time.
I hope that hardware mainteance was part of your plan too :)
If you have ubuntu server you can use it to set up cacti i and monitor your windows desktops via smnp.
Ditto what SvenW says; the first thing to do is to try to get some more information out of them.
You should then be able to see a potted history of the behaviour of the system.
I maintain a small office of about 7 desktop computers running Windows XP, with a server running Ubuntu.
It gives you knowledge about cpu and memory usage, etc, and you be able to see is the whining justified.
It's not certain you'll find the culprit, but it should be easy to spot an application or service that is thrashing the disk or eating all of the PC's RAM or CPU, by looking at the current values and the history graphs.
Leave it running minimised and ask the user to call you when it starts to slow down (assuming it isn't always slow)
How do I troubleshoot a "slow" computer, and what more can I do in terms of regular maintenance?
But even if that is true it is good practice to make sure is it indeed a PEBKAC and that their is nothing else that really makes the system slow, maybe with the network connections or something like that.
Also, it might be a good idea to look into imaging software like TrueImage or something like that because it will make reinstalling from a known good state a very easy and fast operation.
I know that my solution isn,t best but i think it could give you some answers.
I'm quite prepared to accept an annual WinXP reinstall but more often than that is just painful.
If they do, you can expect real speed problems very soon because they will infect themselves with malware.
So, ask your users details: When did it start to get slow, is it slow only in with specific operations or in specific situation etc.etc.
Even if you find that nothing is really wrong, this serves a very important purpose: The user will feel that he is been taken seriously and that you don't ignore him.