I have had to perform this exercise in the past, so I can explain why some other suggestions here may not be enough.
This means we have one stop to clean up after ourselves and/or add something new.
The ISC dhcpd tries to hold on to previously assigned leases as long as possible until the lease pool is empty.
The solution I used was to collect ARP records from (Cisco) routers.
The original question asked for FOSS tools for this purpose, but I'm not aware of any that do it just right.
I'd ask what kind of routers you're using on your network.
I've no idea if or how well this works but it appears to collect some of the data you require so it could be a start.
In places like schools and universities they register users based on their mac address, Tools like arpwatch have a database of static ARP entries.
If you mean static reservations, the answer is: human process.
It is best to audit your network space prior to building an MAC address database.
It will then scavenge from expired (and therefore currently unused) leases.
So add a note to that process to clean up DHCP reservations at the same time.
You are cleaning up your DNS (and, if applicable, NIS) when old computers are decommissioned, right?
If you mean dynamic allocation of leases, you don't have to do anything.
The minimal information you need to capture is IP address, MAC address and some temporal data (first seen, last seen) over some period of time.
I'm trying to ensure that we do not have stale IP addresses reserved when old MAC addresses are pulled.
This could then be compared against your DHCP configuration to see which registrations are NOT being used and may be reclaimed.
DHCP should not be depended on for network user management.
You also need to create (and publish for users) a policy so the script that compares DHCP records with ARP information will nominate addresses to be reclaimed after some time N of non-usage.
In our case, we have a perl script that reads a specially formatted source file and generates NIS, DNS (forward AND backward), and DHCP tables automatically, distributes them, and notifies the serving daemons.
Are there any good FOSS tools to do an audit of reserved IPs used in a Linux/UNIX ISC DHCPd environment?
We used six months, though we did end up reclaiming an address of a staff member who went on sabbatical.