Having 2-3 people connect to a dev box and running jobs and editing and compiling and etc.
However, unless you have extremely high bandwidth between both locations, you will have laggy response times.
X11 is a synchronous protocol and every little event generates a stream of traffic.
You do NOT need to install the xorg video drivers.
You can easily run X11 applications on the remote end.
So don't bother installing x.org stuff or anything else; just pull the tool that you need and if the package maintainer did their job, it will pull the rest.
You will NEED to enable compression on your SSH connection to make this viable.
With regard to how you use it, I reserve judgement.
Hint: if you have a break-in event, you just gave your attackers plenty of tools to play with.
But there are some graphical tools I find useful that would be nice to be able to use (via ssh -X from my Mac).
Running development tools on a production box is probably not the greatest idea.
Anything from "sure, people do this all the time" or "this is the dumbest idea ever."
I would recommend against this as X11's LAN-oriented traffic will make it painful.
It is one of the driving reasons that there have been replacement protocols to deal with this, i.e.
I'm thinking how great it would be to use Sublime Text.
The tool is strictly meant for the server and only augments your command line experience (in this context, I'm thinking of a traditional file server).
I have a VPS (Debian 7.7, 1GB RAM), which is purely a web server (hosts some important stuff), no desktop installed.
I'm open to hearing some perspectives on this idea.
In this context, the security of the box is assured (or at least monitored), the latency is extremely low, and you are re-using resources efficiently.
A place where using X11 would make sense is on a local LAN, using a shared box for everyone to do development on.
I see people hating the question not so much because it's taboo (yes, it is) but because they are giving knee-jerk reactions.
Example: running a server-based tool like gsmartmoncontrol, which is directly aimed at montoring drive health, is a strange but valid example.
Installation through apt-get will most likely pull the minimum libraries required to make this work.