My issue was influenced by some defined tables I had in the Formulas > Name Manager section.
Rightclick the table: you can easily insert a row above.
Just Cltr+End and delete the rows that doesn't have any data.And your problem will solve
I am not sure if it was the same problem, but I had a similar issue on a large spreadsheet where I had many rows and columns hidden.
"Probably your table just has maximum amount of rows, i.e.
Rightclick the table: you cannot insert any more rows.
Perhaps because table2, below the newly converted table1 wasn't included in that event (Convert to Range).
I made all the comments visible, and then moved them to a spot I was not trying to affect and no more problem.
It very easily can be the case when you create a table from selected columns.
I moved "Table2" to another tab, just for testing, then I was able to add a column.
If you select the entire column(s) before making a table, this error will always occur.
It very easily can be the case when you create a table from selected columns.
But I was trying to insert an entire column which would have effected my table named Table2.
containing some data) row of your table and delete all empty rows below it.
This also frequently happens when your table has too many rows.
Probably your table just has maximum amount of rows, i.e.
You cannot add more rows when the table is maxxed out.
To fix this issue, just go to the last non-empty (i.e.
To fix this issue, just go to the last non-empty (i.e.
If you tried to hide, delete, or insert rows/columns that had those hidden comments you got an error message that would go off the table.
Though most of the rows contains no actual data, Excel for some reason treats those cells as not empty.
In many cells I had comments, I discovered that although the comments were linked to a specific cell, you could move them and they could be anyplace on the spreadsheet.
containing some data) row of your table and delete all empty rows below it."
Simple Example: make a new spreadsheet, fill 4 lines, select those, and make a table.
So, check Formulas > Name Manager and see if there's anything defined there.
I would try to add or delete rows or columns and got a message similar to what you had.
Now, another column, fill 4 lines, select the COLUMN (by clicking on the column header) and make a table.
Though most of the rows contains no actual data, Excel for some reason treats those cells as not empty.
PS - Converting my "Format as Table" table to a Regular Range did not resolve my issue.