I'm still relatively new to Linux, but I thought when you when to install the system there was a way to turn on whole-disk encryption.
You can use pend drive for storing encryption keys.
If you have a lot of data you want to protect, information that you don't need fast access to, and for which you are willing to pay a small recurring free, then then Amazon's S4 is a good option, totally removing worries about physical access, so that security is reduced to key management, which, again, is adequately solved by keychain software.
Of course this means that if you mess up and lose the keys, Amazon can't help you.
I hadn't used disk encryption on Linux yet, so perhaps these options have problems like you describe above.
For best security it should be password protected but it doesn't have to.
So I use dm-encrypt to crate a logical encrypted partition.
Your problem is a common one: mainly, the difficult balance between security and usability.
I crated a script around it, which I use daily, see if it helps you.
Amazon don't see the contents of what you store this way, but only the encrypted result.
I don't encrypt the whole hard drive, its just too much of admin/management thingie.
Before you can get serious about security, you have to have answers to these two questions.
"Personal info" suggests that you are worried about things like identity theft, casual snoopers, &c.  Something like keychain software is enough to protect bank login details, &c, but is impractical for large amounts of information.
In the third case case, where you want relatively fast access to a large amount of data, I recommend using not whole disk encryption, but whole partition encryption, per chinmaya's suggestion.
That way all you need is the laptop and the USB drive to access the files on the laptop.
As far as the multiuser logon, perhaps TrueCrypt can be setup to use a key file on a USB drive.
I'm still learning Linux myself, so I hope this helps.
Again, do not forget that everything boils down on the value of what you have to lose, compared to the value of your time and cost of recovery.
http://loop-aes.sourceforge.net/loop-AES.README look at example 7.
Per directory encryption is a nuisance, and I don't recommend it: get the filing system to do the work.
My suggestion is to use a slightly modified version of a mixed approach:
http://bitbucket.org/chinmaya/linux-scripts/src/tip/ch-enc