That being said, I believe that the game changes slightly if, for instance:
Attempting unauthorized access - nothing wrong with trying.
you can do this with a bash script cron.weekly job if your a system admin with a little skill.
Running programs like metasploit won't ever crash a server.
maybe this employee really wants to understand his environment better.
Because sending unsolicited emails won't raise question about the companies reputation and standards.
As the other answer indicates, this is an HR (or some such) issue.
Sending unsolicited email - make the email log public so that everyone in the company can see who sends emails to what address.
IMO, if I was in your shoes I would want that person gone.
Downloading pornography - just tell him face to face to stop doing that.
And because installing unknown, third party software won't ever be malicious or cause security issues.
Installing software / tampering with the system -  remove their account or reduce their priveledges on the system without telling them.
basically he is exposing problems in the network that the system admin didn't catch.
Having this in your job description or policy removes from you the burden of being the tattletale: if you are legally bound to report issues, you can't be accused of doing it just because you don't like someone.
If you are fired for reporting, you may be able to sue for wrongful termination if the policy demands that you report.
While the AUP suggestions are great, it is also important for the IT department to get from the HR department a clear enumeration of duties, such as what is to be reported, to whom, and when.
I think that as long as the actions have no direct impact on the ability for you to maintain the network/connectivity, this is not an issue for a sysadmin to resolve.
Unless you work for Vivid Entertainment I would say the unacceptable barrier was crossed long ago.
What happens down the line when they gets busted for something and then you're in the scope now because of the "Why didn't you report this?"
These are cases where this user's abuse of resources has a direct impact on your job, which means you can quantify this as a measureable loss of money to your employer when you tally up how much effort from you, or your team, is required to maintain his/her habits.
tell him that if he wants to do that, get a cellular wireless network to do it on and dont use the business network.
In this case, you would have to do something about this before you wind up becoming the person made responsible for this, and you "pay for it."
So when you bust the boss for breaking the rules, you can refer to the policy you are bound to.
there can be legitimate reasons for doing this, the most common of which is for "the learning experience".