The Netware Client for MS-DOS thus came with an NCOPY command for MS-DOS, which knew about the API extensions, called them, and thus could perform server-executed copies (that also preserved Netware file attributes).
It was only ever exercised by workstations running OS/2.
As with SMB/CIFS, there was no real way to plumb the Netware mechanism into MS-DOS proper for use by applications in general.
There's been no real capability for exercising SMB_COM_COPY in workstations running MS-DOS or Windows NT.
☺  But you seem to be asking about instigating a copy command from a workstation, that copies within a single fileserver and where the whole copy operation is executed by the server itself (subject to the normal access permissions and so forth).
OS/2 applications have a DosCopy() system API function available to them, and the OS/2 LAN Server network redirector in OS/2 was clever enough to recognize when a file was being copied from a remote network volume to a different place on that volume, and forward the entire operation to the server.
There's not even a "copy an entire file" system call in the (unextended) MS-DOS API to hook into.
There used to be, in the SMB protocol, a command for performing server-side copies, where none of the copied data need travel across the LAN.
So again, OS/2 workstations would exercise this automatically, as applications called DosCopy() to copy files around.
However, there are Netware-specific extensions to the MS-DOS API.
In the past for these situations I've generally terminal serviced into the server and done the copy from there.
It would involve you invoking the command on the remote server which you might not have the authority to do.
There is a whole file copy transaction in the Netware protocol, and the Netware network redirector for OS/2 was clever like the LAN Server network redirector.
Obviously, if you are actually logged in and issuing a copy command on the server itself, the copy operation doesn't involve any workstations.
As such, Microsoft decided to drop that part of the protocol from NT LAN Manager, and a CIFS transaction with that command ID now simply generates an error response.
There's an ncopy command for Linux that issues the same Netware protocol command.
— nothing equivalent for Windows NT, and no way to make use of this facility from a Windows NT workstation.