You mentioned items to restore the cooldown of the spells.
In most game, there are often mechanics tied to resource management.
If the player want to turtle, he will receive a reduced / no bonus.
All the propositions revolve around giving the player other things to do during the waiting time, but in combination to those, you may also privilege fights that end quickly.
For example, enemy monsters can have the same mechanics; if you take too long killing them, they start unleashing dangerous moves.
For example, your more classical mana-using mage have to manage its mana pool, so he has to make choices about what spell to use.
Therefore, the only question the player has to ask himself is "should I keep this spell for later in the fight or use it right now?"
Path of Exile uses this structure for both flasks (which instantly recharge in town) and Vaal skills (which only recharge in battle).
As Wazpoodle noticed, the problem is mainly that defending for a long time do not have any other drawback than time.
If you plan to implement this in a turn-based game, just make sure that the player cannot rest whenever, which would make negate the interest of the reloading time.
Your "Use ability every N turns of combat" mage however, doens't have to make those choices, since each spell use its own resource, so to speak.
Or reward taking a short time; you get bonus xp or resources if you can quickly kill the enemies.
Therefore, I don't think it solves the issue of your cooldown-based mage being less interesting than a mana-based mage.
Most of the times, those games include spellcaster classes with different resources mechanics.
For example, a fight that is finished in the first 3 turn may give a additional bonus (XP, money...), that degrade slowly over the duration of the combat.
Since it is a turn-based game, the player can just wait for the ability to be available again.
If there's a boss every, say, 10 enemies, and each kill recharges 10% of the power needed, the optimal strategy is, indeed, to use your other abilities to take out the normal enemies, then fire the big guns at the boss.
Take a look at Pathfinder classes for example, maybe this could be interesting?
If you're dead-set on having this be time/turn based, then you need a mechanism in place that punishes taking a long time.
Meaning, if you are in a dungeon for example, you can probably only use it once for the entire dungeon (not saying it cannot be abused, of course).
This works well in the The Elder Scrolls serie because you cannot rest if ennemies are nearby.
Use ability once or N times per day (sleep to restore, or wait out day-night cycle)
A potential solution could have the burst damage be enabled by other skills, such as debuffs, self buffs, and the like.
In MMOs this is called a rotation - it's been awhile, but IIRC WoW has a good example with the fire warlock, who has a spell that does a ton of damage, but with limited CDs and a bunch of pre-requisites for getting the most out of the spell.
(since I assume every cooldown is reset when the fight is over).
This would incentivize this class (the burst attack may be enough to end the combat on the first turn), while also pushing the player to act now and make do if the burst is not enough.
I believe this is a less interesting choice, because for example, if you decide to heal an ally for 50 HP when he has 50/100 HP left or 10/100 HP left does not make a difference on the result of the fight.
How about making the abilities recharge from enemy kills?