I suspect rebooting might also be required (or perhaps just some other process like restarting a service related to logging in, but rebooting the entire computer may be the easier-to-describe step that will successfully do the trick).
So, this may cause some other problems, that may need to be fixed separately (or might cause you so much anguish that you might decide to revert).
e.g., if in a professional system that uses Microsoft Outlook, does it work right?
Make sure that a backup of any critical data is easily accessible
(Customize the "(SIDdetails)" and "NewValue" parts of that last line.)
I know I have pointed the registry key to a new location when I was working professionally on making a brand-new user account function nicely.
This changes one setting used by Microsoft Windows.
Verify that your directory has changed, as desired
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\ProfileList
Basically, this just causes a user account to look at a new directory.
Especially, if they access important data files that were in your directory, make sure those files can be easily opened without problem.
This change does not cause any other programs that might be storing their own copies of information about where files are at.
Run key programs to see if they are still working nicely.
Especially you use the command prompt heavily, maybe you can work around the current problem (of a challenging name) by referencing %USERPROFILE% instead of using C:\Users\(complicated...)
Okay, with that overview/warning out of the way, here are some steps:
Look through each sub-key for the one that has a REG_EXPAND_SZ value called ProfileImagePath that has the old location.
Speaking of Outlook, if you're ever in a situation where you also changed the spelling of a user account, make sure to check that out too.
(That is, right-click on a RegEdit icon or a Command Prompt icon, and if there is a "Run As Administrator" option, choose that.
  Do that before tinkering with the user account you want, just in case a problem occurs that prevents you from logging in as the user you want.