Every time it hits something, then we roll a dice calculating 1-100, then if it is 1, then the sword breaks.
Honestly, 5% of failure is ambiguous, and varies on how the developer has developed the system.
So a weapon would not have the effect applied until it is used to attack something.
Developers can check every frame, which would rapidly increase the chances, or after so many frames/time.
Lets say we have a spaceship, and if you run the engines at 90% or more of maximum speed for 5 minutes, there is a 5% chance they will explode.
And for the special user who has spreadsheets detailing every tiny chance or difference between engines, you can bury it in documentation or let them figure it out on there own.
With regards to the length of time, you simply do not check until the time required has passed.
Then there are ongoing, like you have pointed out.
We simply start counting when they hit 90% of maximum speed, and stop when they go below 90%.
So it would be 5% failure each time you use the object.
The average user doesn't really need to know that the game only checks this once every minute, or whenever they change speed or direction.
But we can get around this with some form of cooldown, perhaps pausing the counter while the speed is below 90% during this period.
With in game items, their effects tend to be either permanent, or applied by use.
So if the engine has a 5% chance of failure if it has been running for X amount of time, then simply do not roll the dice until X amount of time has passed.
The other option, applied with use, or a condition, is simple.
Of course, this opens up an exploit that lets them drop below 90% to reset the counter.
It really is a way of telling the user that there is a chance something bad can happen, and they can tell that a 2% failure engine is better than a 5%.
Permanent effects rarely have any % failure chances, instead, they do things like +1 to damage, or -20% dodge.
After 5 minutes has passed, it starts rolling the dice each tick.
For the first 5 minutes, the program doesn't roll any dice.