You might also want to call your ISP and talk to them - they may be able to change your ADSL profile at the exchange to make it less susceptible to noise and thus more reliable and/or get your line checked.
If your Wifi security is not WPA2-AES, or if it is set to that and your password is not a strong password, it's a possibility.
Depending on your environment some of these frequencies are not available for use because of noise and the DSL line removes them.
I notice that my ADSL connection is getting slow after a while, and I need to restart the modem in order to get full speed again.
A DSL modem takes a number of (usually sequential) frequencies in a defined band - like transmitting and receiving lots of radio stations at one time - and combines this into a signal on the other side.
If your DSL modem is more than a couple years old, you should look into replacing it.
I believe WPA2-TKIP is difficult to crack so you likely do not have anything to worry with that unless your password is weak.
DSL connections sometimes have very limited outgoing bandwidth compared to cable connections.
A good DSL modem will periodically retest (renegotiate) the frequencies available- Yours is probably dropping noisy ones but not renegotiating good ones until you restart.
Your "upstream" may be as low as 256Mbit/sec, while your "downstream" may be something like 1.5Mbit/sec or 3.0Mbit/sec.
It's possible to set up a Linux system to do this but it's very complex.
Lowering the amount of bandwidth such programs uses will help.
If your upstream ("upload" speed) is saturated, TCP ACKs may not be able to get through to your box and this can actually slow down or break downstream ("download") connections.
You may also look into flashing your DSL modem with Tomato - this is a bit involved and may not be supported by your router, but it has QoS features that could help make sure no single connection completely dominates your DSL connection.
The more that are removed, the slower your connection.
The most likely problem is a combination of (forgive me) cheap router and temporary changes to the characteristics of the line [ for example caused by weather or other DSL subscribers usage or tweeks on the ISP side equipment ].
The best thing may be to try another type of modem and see if that fixes the problem.
If you have a very large number of browser tabs open with Javascript/AJAX constantly hitting servers for updates that may be a contributing factor.
If your DSL modem is old and it's built-in Wifi does not support WPA2, you should purchase another Wifi router that does, and only use it's access point features (disable DHCP and routing if possible on it, configure the Wifi, and connect it to one of the LAN ports on your DSL box - then disable Wifi on your DSL box)