Thanks for your support, I just wanted to tell my story for others to try.
I don't expect you have the tools (soldering iron, ROM programmer) readily available, but their ASUS' repair depot should.
Same as others, I tried to update the bios with the bios utility.
If the "Crash Free BIOS" update fails to work, an alternate method is to remove the BIOS ROM chip from the board (usually they are socketed, but some are soldered down) and program the part directly with a ROM programmer using a binary image of the BIOS.
The using the same app SPIPGM I programmed it, I tested and my motherboard is working OK with itś latest BIOS release.
Just an FYI I used to work for ASUS a long time ago and the easiest fix for this it to call Tech Support they will be more them happy to send you a new bios chip flashed with the proper bios (that you request) as long as it is a board that has the removable bios chip.
From the ASUS website, they have a 3 year warranty on the motherboard.
I built the parallel adapter, I added a 3.3vdc power supply and used it to program my flash memory chip.
It finished the process, rebooted and... nothing, a black screen.
If you only tried the USB option for crash free then you should try floppy or CD.
There are some great suggestions here, but odds are you don't have the gear to fix (reflash) the rom on your own.
The CD that came with your mobo also has the base rom on it and you should be able to use that as well (or burn yours to a cd).
I had the exact same problem a couple years back (but I didn't use the Windows App) and since it was still under warranty I just sent it back because if I had pulled my rom I would have voided my warranty.
I confirm I successfully programmed my flash IC for an ASUS P8H67-M-PRO.
Sounds like you have a hardware conflict of some sort.
First I compared it's content with the ROM image and I realised that most of the ic content was #FF (erased but not programmed).
The turnaround on my replacement was 10 days (not business days).