Experience - If you would like to take only the more interesting, higher complexity jobs, I'd recommend setting a fairly high minimum rate.
If you think $60/hour is a fair rate, charge $100/hour.
Location and Type of Business - Obviously you can get a higher rate in NYC than in the middle of Vermont.
My recommendation if you decide to choose the hourly rate path - always charge more than you  initially think.
For the hourly rate:  The rate you charge is really a combination of a few things; location, the business itself, scope of work and experience.
This will eliminate the businesses looking to lowball you, and also the "Can you install my printer?
I lean towards the charge per hour, typically to avoid scope creep.
I've done some contract sysadmin work for a few small businesses in the past.
Maybe call around to other freelance SA in your area and ask for estimates.
Scope of Work - I generally charge less for a business that wants me to come in every few weeks/months for routine maintenance.
I won't talk about our rates here, but I would advise you to always have a contract in writing before you do any work.
Within your company, use it as a ballpark that you'd have to pay if you need help with a specific project or a generally high workload.
the business adding more items to the todo list into the same "job")  This can be avoided with a good Statement of Work defined up front.
Your rate is dictated by the type of work, your experience and qualifications, and the duration / quantity of time involved.
Here are some "business things" that have worked for us (our business turns 5 y/o on June 30):
I've dropped my per-hour rate significantly for one Customer, for example, who wanted our people on-site 8 x 5 Monday - Friday with emergency after-hours support for a committed 3 month contract.
Second of all: It would benefit all SysAdmins if we all used that $100/hour figure wherever possible.
It's always easy to negotiate down if you need to, much harder to negotiate up.
5 years ago we were paying a guy $100 who was experienced and easy to work with, today I'd expect to pay him more.
If you hire an experienced SysAdmin on a contract basis, don't try to lowball, pay at least $100/hour.
Some smaller businesses just aren't able to pay more.
No matter what you think of these two companies, they have put a lot of work into their marketing and pricing systems.
Higher complexity jobs command a higher hourly rate.
I'll throw my support behind the "start at $100.00 / hr" crowd, too.
The business that wants a "fix everything one time" solution will get charged a bit more.
When someone with a business who's looking for help asks me what they should pay, I say "at least $100/hour for someone with good experience, more if you want someone like me."
OTOH, the rate gets significantly higher if you want me to drop everything and respond to an unscheduled emergency.
Even if the contract just says "to work on the following specific items..." for incidental work, you need a written agreement that explains the arrangements clearly for all parties involved.
Yep-- this is exactly what my business does, and is how I make my living.