There is a lot of information that you didn't include.
Do you have to report on your compliance to anyone?
We have them checking PCI compliance on any of our sites that accept credit card info and scanning all of our IP for open ports, servers for vulnerabilities, cross-site scripting issues, etc.
Rather than set up a VPS or EC2 server and configuring it with various tools, it seems like this could just be contracted out to a port and vulnerability scanning service.
Edit: oh, it looks like openvas is a fork of Nessus...
You could also regularly assess compliance with a hardened baseline to ensure they are not deviating from it over time, or introducing new risks..
I'm setting up a periodic port scan and vulnerability scan for a medium-sized network implementing a customer-facing web application.
If you are looking for a well known brand with industry approval I would think they are not a bad place to start depending on exactly what you want the scan to do.
If they do it professionally they may be more up to date than something I set up and let run for a year...
It handles network vulnerabilities both remotely or by setting up an agent on the target host.
I've automated scanning before, but did not use an outsourced scanning service.
I've used tools like Nmap and OpenVAS, but our firewall rules have special cases for connections originating from our own facilities and servers, so really the scan should be done from the outside.
As for getting a good un-biased scan of your network, you can do something like order cable/dsl for your organization and use that for your scans - or you can go the EC2/Colo route.
It is trivial to use Nmap or Nessus scripted, encrypt the output and send it to yourself via email.
I've setup and used this in a past job and I think it does exactly what you are asking for.
The tools you pick are up to you, but it seems like people tend to lean towards nCircle, Rapid7, and/or Qualys for vulnerability and compliance scanning from my experience.
We use McAfee Secure for our web scans, they provide in depth scans including PCI compliance.
On the topic of outsourced security services for scanning, many people I know swear by Rapid7.
Take a look a Nessus ( http://nessus.org/nessus/ ).
They also have HD Moore on staff so they certainly know penetration testing and Metasploit.
Keep in mind that to get accurate results from vulnerability scanning & compliance analysis, you'll need to perform authenticated scans from inside the firewall(s).
I maintain colocations on different providers for outside testing.
If you are a security guru, I'd keep it in house, but otherwise, I would outsource it.