It's just specially designed to function only as a remote storage device.
As has been pointed out already, the Netgear Readynas is actually more like a full PC in it's own right.
They are now being advertised more because their performance is more critical, because we area asking these devices to do more and more.
Well, HDD always had processors, mainly to cache data and do other HDD stuff like marking bad blocks etc.
Your printer has a processor, your keyboard, your mouse, and on and on and on.
Fortunately he realised it wasn't just a stray bit of paper and didn't try to remove it.
The fact of the matter is this however, anything that has to perform a set of tasks where the next iteration of a process can be different to the previous iteration, must have some kind of interpreter that can make sense of the instructions the device is given, and then react to those instructions in some fashion.
Go stand in your kitchen and see just how many CPU's you can count.
I'm willing to bet that your   Fridge/Freezer, Washing Machine, Dish washer, Oven and Microwave (at the very least) all have some sort of Processor in, it may not be an Intel Core i7, but it's still a processor, and it's designed to sit their quietly, interpreting instructions sent to it by other electrical/digital circuits which it then turns into the physical operations you see.
It's not, it's a massively parallel mathematical algorithm processor, Iv'e just finished doing the technical edit on a book on Nvidia CUDA, and what I learned about Nvidia GPU's was rather surprising, these things are Processor's in their own right, processors that are designed to do a specialist set of jobs, but they are still semi intelligent and capable of many different types of operation.
The host PC sends "OP Codes" (Short for operation codes) across the bus (PCI, ISA, MCI, PCIe or whatever) to the drives controller, the controller then reads this code, and any data that's provided with it and turns them into physical operations that then cause the drive to move the heads to the correct place, and read the requested data.
A smart command is to pick up everything en route = = This is kinda how AHCI works with NCQ.
----  All of the answers on this page were too long (or so I felt) - - -
We had a very fast (noisy) band printer which ran a bank of hammers hitting a high-speed, high-tensile band.
Take for example an "IDE Hard drive, with it's on board IDE controller", while this is not a CPU in the same sense that you think of a CPU on your PC's main board, it is never the less still a form of CPU.
In terms of processor, well it might surprise you to learn that it's not just Hard drives that have "Processors" on these days, try this little experiment.
The best way to discribe that, is if you work in a store, and you are told to get items from the most distant corners, before getting everything en route.
Well it's a bit hard to pin down these days, but in general the definition of a "Processor" is something along the lines of "Any self contained unit, that is capable of acting on external inputs in a semi intelligent way, and producing a known set of outputs derived from those inputs"
Old routers also had processors, though they used to be slow and not advertised at all.
Drifting a little further from the question but reinforcing the everything has processors theme, back in the 80's I was a sysadmin in charge of a few VAX/VMS mainframes.
Graphics cards are another thing, you hear people band the term "GPU" around like it's some mystical thing that only does graphics.
Before this was done, somethign Called PIO or "Processor controlled... umm... I/O.
SO any stand alone unit, circuit, chip or autonomous machine that can effect a physical manifestation of some known process based on a set of pre-defined inputs can in it's most basic and generic sense be considered to be a processor of some description.
Routers have an even longer history, Cisco has built networking gear now for best part of the last 50 years or more, and every single one of these devices have had a custom controller/CPU in them all that time.
However, these days we demand more from the routers, and features such as VPN require faster processors.
If you wanted to there would be nothing stopping you from re-programming the Netgear device with new software and making it function perfectly fine as a web server, database server or even a small Linux development server.
The program for that processor was stored on a piece of paper tape which was also read in a continuous loop, every time the printer was switched on (yes it was left running most of the time).
That's completely formed 132 character lines, not a line of dots.
There is virtually no device in computer electronics which is so dumb that it can perform its role without a processor - at the very least virtually everything has to encode a signal in or out at some time.
To control the timing of how the hammers hit the band, it had some simple electronic circuitry.
The WRT54G, which came out in 2002 had a Broadcom BCM4702 running at 125Mhz.
The disk is responsible for "HOW" to get it to the computer.
This CPU was designed by Cisco, for Cisco expressly for the purpose of programming and controlling their entire range or Routers & Switches.
I would be hard pressed to think of a device that is connected to your computer that does NOT have a processor of some kind.
Back in the mists of time, terminology such as "Controllers" where the norm, but these still boiled down to the same thing.
I only found out when my operator got enthusiastic cleaning the printer and found the paper tape.
If that signal varies, there must be rules for how it varies and a processor enforces those rules.
What your seeing here is the ongoing corruption and half truths that are spread through our society by over zealous marketing agencies, where sales people are encouraged more and more and made to believe they are the stars of the show, simply because they are the one's making the profits.
It's more like a network connected HDD with some fancy software to allow you to stream information over the network.
This needed a different program depending on the band - you could have even faster bands which only had uppercase letters (several sets of ASCII on one band).
 1. the distance between the CPU and the HDD is vast in computer terms: Latency.
(A quick search will show you more than a handful of projects aimed to do such a thing with these NAS units)
The Netgear product you linked is a NAS, which allows you to stream media from it over the network, so it's not really a HDD.
All semi autonomous equipment ever since the birth of the computer revolution has had some sort of "Processor" on it, it's just until now it was never really flagged as such.
NCQ needs more intelligent processing because it better plans its seeks.