The monitor native resolution is for the most part the only resolution capable of displaying a clear and crisp image.
So I'd expect you to be able to find a good monitor with more pixels per inch as well.
On laptops you really cannot make the screen bigger, not many people would be happy to haul around 24" monster laptop (I think Dell has one).
(For example, there was this Microsoft Laptop Hunter advertisement that got quite some bad critics as some Sheila insisted on getting a 17" screen and ended up buying a 17"  HDX 16t that has a 1366 by 768 resolution, which is worse than the  1440 by 900 of a 15" MacBook.)
So manufacturers are forced to put high DPI screens on laptops, but usually can also ask for higher price for these devices.
As for monitors things are a little more involving.
Resolution is dependent on both your graphics card capabilities and your monitor.
The bigger the screen, the better the viewing angle, contrast and colour stability.
Graphics cards can handle a wide range of different resolutions and refresh rates.
I think it is probably due to cost and low demand.
This is why, you see LCD monitors more demanding in terms of screen-size.
So you small eye paining laptop screen is mostly loosing on image quality compared to a decent 24 inch panel with the same amount of pixels.
Changing resolutions on most of these monitors to anything other than the native resolution (even while maintaining the same aspect ratio) introduces blockyness or fogginess into your image.
Which is a shame as I really would like to have 24" monitor that does 4096x2560 and costs under 1000eur.
Manufacturing a high DPI LCD panel costs more and majority of people like to have 1920x1200 resolution on 24" monitor, so most LCD panels are manufactured to that size (and new trend seems to be 1920x1080) and that means cheaper prices.
LCDs: LCDs technology is... not emerging anymore, but limited in this regard.
Making a desktop monitor with the notebook panel, and put it in the same rack in the shop as the 24 inch ones, would make it look ridiculous image quality wise.
However it is good to know they too can limit your desktop resolution.
Keep in mind that a laptop's screen is usually much closer to your eyes than a regular desktop monitor.
CRTs: The technology allows for a wider array of supported resolutions without loss of image quality.