The simplicity of this has both infuriated me and delighted me since I had to test so many different methods to get to this point seeing how there was not documentation as to how it should be done.
It should be noted that the file option in an href tag ONLY works in IE (which is a real bummer since we mostly use Firefox).
So the place I work decided to set up a Microsoft Sharepoint 2010 server for task management and I (as the lowly entry-level intern) have been tasked with "figuring it out."
This works (sometimes) but the link reported by Sharepoint is often wrong and editing pages that contain these links will mangle the code such that when I open it, the code no longer looks like what it did when I last hit save (breaking all those links).
In order to do this, I have edited the HTML manually with several lines that look like the following:
It can basically be said that this is not a supported feature and should be used with caution.
Any ideas on how this would work or am I barking up the wrong tree?
One thing that the end users really, really, really, want is the ability to link to network shares (that are readable by anyone who will be using sharepoint) from a Sharepoint web page.
It seems that the only way to do this is to manually modify the HTML on the page (yuck!)
The limitation here is that it only works in Internet Explorer due to the security sense that IE lacks and all other browsers have (since linking to a user's local files is potentially a security hazard).
This breaking seems inconsistent and varies from deleting parts of the link to attempting to convert it to a server-side reference to deleting the whole thing right out.
I've been told by coworkers that "It worked that way at the last place I worked" but I haven't found out how yet.
If you simply start typing the path to your share in the form \\ServerName\ShareName\ then SharePoint will automagically convert it into a <a href="file://ServerName/ShareName/">\\ServerName\ShareName\</a> link in the html which (as far as I've seen) won't sporadically break itself (as I mentioned in my recently posted last "answer").
The Firefox plugin that attempts to mitigate this security feature din't work for me either.
None of the knowledge searches I've done shed any light on the sitataion.
This additionally means that every time you attempt to edit a page with one of these links in it, there is a chance that SharePoint will bork up the link and break it.