Which means that, initially, the player has no accurate information about their character(s).
Because you are able to judge it doesn't mean that you are able to judge it well, or even accurately so you would perhaps have a stat which corresponds to the likelihood of the judgement being inaccurate, as well as one for the severity of the inaccuracy.
Gamers have different play styles and if you force them out of what they are comfortable with, they can get frustrated.
This typically leads to more conservative behavior out of the player if losing has any real downsides.
I'm not a fan of a system that encourages the player to play in this way.
This is purely subjective on my part, so bear with me.
While it sounds good on paper, it can yield very different results.
If you feel the numbers detract from the experience and want to make the character's status apparent through how he looks or how the control changes YOU ARE MOVING AWAY FROM THE TRADITIONAL RPG, which is fine however if you are making a real RPG which utilizes a stats system, you should at least give the player a screen where he is given the numerical values for his abilities and attributes.
And if I have a high numerical value, I have every right  to expect that this number is in some way accurate.
The game designer provides a game, which displays information to the player.
It is the player's job to see this information and interpret it.
It's one thing for a game to accidentally mislead you.
Which means that, not only have you hidden information from the player (their actual attack rating), you are now lying to them by letting them think that their attack is higher than it really is.
Maybe instead of random stats, you have them answer a quiz or perform actions on a vanilla character and base stats on the answers the player chooses or the actions they perform.
The problem with abstracting over the numbers is that the difference may be very difficult or observe due to the manifesting over long periods of time or being very subtle.
I enjoy when there is an entirely new way of doing things with regards to the battle system in an RPG; however while I do enjoy the process of learning a well-designed, unfamiliar system I always end up feeling like I've finally got the hang of it right in time for the last battle... so, it's a balance.
So I thought, what about making the accuracy of your assessment part of the whole game.
It is the game designer's job to make this information sufficiently clear for the player to be able to properly interpret it and make reasonable, meaningful decisions from it.
In fact, if you have a lucky streak with the RNG, this can make a lower attack character look like a higher one.
Even if I don't understand what that number means exactly, I should expect that a character with 50 in some stat is at least somewhat better at that task than a character with 20 in that stat.
With regards to your "pokemoon-esque" game idea- having your OWN champions' stats be hidden from the player at first seemed a BAD idea, or rather one that I didn't like at first... however, I HAVE always felt that games which were attempting to be as "realistic" as possible would ultimately not even want to use stats, per se.
Second it gives the player some customization options, choosing what skill to level up feels like making an important decision, and that is good.
This is perfidy: a game designer willfully and deliberately not acting in good faith.
They may even resort to restarting the game multiple times when they discover their character isn't how they want it to be.
All they have are a bunch of people with random, hidden stats.
If I see that I have a high attack rating, I should expect that to be legitimate information.
Also, it was said that giving people more information allows them to make more informed decisions... giving them TOO MUCH information- either by drowning them in too much data or by giving them unintentionally misleading or unclear data, is just as bad.
I would consider it a mortal sin for a game to deliberately give me false information, especially info which is critical to my success.
Perhaps someone who is an experienced trainer can end up with a result quite similar to a numerical value, but a novice surely wouldn't.
Or what behavior are you trying to prevent the player from being able to do?
It sounds like you are going in an interesting and unique direction which can land you in a very good place.
As I see it you get the full effect of the downside, but none of the upsides.
That is my right as a player, and it is the responsibility of the game designer not to infringe on that right.
This is not misdirection or an unintended accident.
Like the trainer has stats which determine the accuracy of what you see as your champions stats.
Say if a character has a propensity for archery that should be built into their back story or they should volunteer or show enthusiasm for tasks they are talented at.
A concern I would have with this system is this: ELO is based on number of games played.
As the guy above me said (paraphrased) how exactly does your game BENEFIT from what you want to do differently- it is not enough to want to hide the stats simply because it would be cool to hide the stats.
If your pokemon game were "real life", one would not have the convenience of having a numerical value for, say "strength" but rather one would have to judge its strength based upon one's own knowledge and familiarity with the thing.
Thus, by denying them information, they must make due with less.
However, because the accuracy of their information is based on number of fights, it could lead to far more wild and experimental behavior, just to find out what a character's stats are.
One must strike a narrow balance, which is why the traditional style is so commonly used-  it manages to strike that balance and people are already familiar with it.
Giving players (or people in general) information allows them to make more informed decisions.
If you're fighting a bunch of guys with low defensive stats, your attack ELO is going to be disproportionately high.
I think there is one very important aspect you have to deliver on and if you can then this is a perfectly good idea.
That way you can still have hidden stats but the player still has some control over how the character grows.
It is a simple but effective skinner box technique.
Furthermore, your ELO system encourages players to engage in more fights than they might want, just to get a more accurate idea of their ELO.
Break the social contract between yourself and your players at your own peril.
This too has to be communicated or it is going to be really hard for the player to notice.
Indeed, ELO ratings are very misleading, because ELO is relative.
And your ELO system can do exactly that, since ELO is an estimate that only gets better with the number of games played and the level of opponents faced.
The point of having variable stats in the first place is first and foremost that the player can increase those stats.
I would prefer that the player want to play naturally, not has to be tricked into it just to get actual information about their character.
So I think just a random talent set is a bad idea unless you can communicate the talents in some other way than observation or the player's trial and error.
If the player just stops working that is going to be very frustrating to the player.
So, while I think that it could be used in some really cool ways in your poke-champion style RPG, my general view on the matter would be that if you are making an RPG, include the stats.
At first you might only be able to judge strength, at least perhaps until you train a champion that is, say, highly intelligent so raising it allows you to judge Intelligence as a value.
In short, what do you want your system to achieve that showing these stats makes harder or impossible?
I feel that a videogame represents a social contract between the player and the game designer.
Game design, at its most core, fundamental level, is what any artistic endeavor is about: communication.
The downside of variable stats is that you need to design the game to be enjoyable no matter how the stats have developed.
You can do this by the character visibly changing or complaining more vehemently as the mana levels decrease.
The thing you need to think hardest about is this: why do you want to hide these stats?
The number are an obvious if very crude way to communicative to the user exactly what is happening.
This can be quite hard as tuning a fight to the desirable difficulty for a player with one stat set will often make it either too hard or too easy for a player with a different stat set.
If a player can neither see nor influence a stat then what is the point of making it variable?