That will give you the functionality you are after without the license costs.
Right now for example, the way I see it is that your example network doesn't have proper backups.
As cost is clearly a factor you might want to look into setting up a Linux Domain Controller instead of a Windows one.
For small businesses with less than 10 PCs it's often an overkill to even have a central server, much less buy a Windows Domain Server which costs heaps of cash.
You could use a workstation as an ersatz file server, and establish user accounts on that "server" with whatever delegation/permissions model you choose.
Another solution is to create the same users on all computers (including setting the same passwords).
However the need remains for people to share files and printers amongst their computers.
Do you really value your data so low that you would be satisfied for things to continue this way?
Other computers could then authenticate against that computer, and even set permissions on shares.
It would be great if it was possible to set up one of the machines as a central "user database".
The standard solution would be to share the folders publicly.
Maybe staff copy data off to a USB HD or something, but there is a dependency on staff actually doing it, and the data is scattered around all PCs in a non-secure manner.
Windows SBS and a 5 CAL pack, which fits neatly into your 10 user example, will only cost about $1500 retail (you can probably get it for a good deal less through a licensing agreement, but either way it could hardly be called skyrocketing) and gives a lot more than just central authentication that I would argue is most definitely not completely irrelevant.
Do some Googling and you should find plenty of information on the subject.
One way is to buy a server with Windows Server Foundation on it which is a "cheaper than SBS" OEM-only 15 user Windows Server 2008 R2 with no CAL requirements.
Windows Server uses kerberos to securely delegate authentication and ldap to determine who is authorized to do what.
You're also going to violate the Windows XP/Vista/7 license agreement, which limits users using a workstation to 3 or 5.
This allows for authorized access, but adding new users or chaning passwords is a pain.
I don't know if you're viewing the fuller picture here.
But sometimes that can be undesireable, for example if some unauthorized laptops appear in the network regularly.
If you don't want to spend the money for Windows Server, get a book about Linux, put linux on a desktop and do it that way.