Of course your devices on router 2 could send traffic to anybody, which can be a problem in itself (usage statistics, camera images, sound over microphones, information about WLAN, GPS receivers etc.
It's interesting both routers have internet access when your cable modem
[^note1]: At this point after applying settings, anything that connects
If you want to have more complexity, you can also enable VLANs, this way you can put additional VLAN-aware devices behind the router and connect both types of devices to them, essentially making your whole home as if every device was plugged in directly into a port of one of both routers, even if you have only a single router and 5 switches behind it daisy-chained... but do this only if you must, as the possibility for error is substantial and the benefit depends on your cabling (almost none when using star topology, great when having to use ring topology).
This wireless LAN is allowed to connect to the Internet, but isn't allowed to connect to devices on the main wired or wireless LANs.
different subnet, then firewall it off the rest of the main network.
The difference here is that you'll have to configure and
somewhere along like this (be prepared to lose connectivity):
[^nDS]: If you have a Nintendo DS, you'll have to use WEP.
You can configure your ports separately and route the bad traffic separately from the good traffic.
Also do not connect the insecure devices unless you need to.
Yes, but it'll take a bit of config work and some testing.
The only thing needed to do is to create another bridge, assign it to a
It's been a while since I last did it this way but it should go
If you want the same setup to work for the other router,
Your virtual interfaces (up to three if I'm not mistaken) will
[^ipaddr]: Say your main network is on 172.16.1.0/24, give br1 an
to the IoT SSID will now be assigned to a different subnet.
A caveat for this is that this setup is effective only for the gateway
taking the switch out (is it really a switch or is the switch capable of
Alternatively, you could create another SSID just for the NDS and have
experience random and sporiadic loss of connectivity on one or the other
Assuming your connection from router 1 to the Switch is using the WAN port of the router and you are not sharing WAN and LAN in OpenWRT (meaning you did not change the default settings and did the cabling as you would when connected directly to the modem), you are mostly fine.
So you could put the IoT devices on network, and they won't be able to compromise your computers.
Create a separate network should be the best way to keep the insecure devices away from your secure LAN to prevent malicious users/devices from  gaining access to your shared files or networked devices ,it can be achieved by enabling the GUEST network Using the Netgar WNDR3700v3 features  with a strong and differents passwords .
), and place one of your DD-WRT routers as the gateway.
two subnets can still communicate with each other.
Yes, your solution is also ok but will increase one switching hop, plus config overhead, you can achieve this with one router by doing the following:
Most home WiFi routers allow you to configure a "guest network".
bridge a new VLAN to the IoT SSID and maybe do some routing rules.
setup as it is (without knowing to which port the routers were wired
DD-WRT (among others) support creating multiple SSIDs on the same AP.
Your keyword would be DMZ, there are plenty of tutorials available.
[^brname]: This will be the interface name DD-WRT will give to the
http://www.alexlaird.com/2013/03/dd-wrt-guest-wireless/
It's completely possible, but I'd like to address a few things first.
[^virtif]: The first is usually the physical interface and often labeled
Disable the remote access through the WIFI to your routers
to), may either have IP address conflicts, or may occasionally
similar setup myself for segregating a guest network.