Also if security concerns are that great you might want to scan the server, turn off any unnecessary services and other chatty things that are going to be running in a default install.
For your users you can also modify \Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts to point "Wiki" to your servers statically assigned internal IP.
If you are worried about it having internet access because you dont want people using it to download torrents, porn or any other un-savory internet content then using the features of your router/firewall to bar it from internet is the way to go.
This depends on WHY you don't want it connected to the internet.
If poeple are likely to forget then give it a static address and no default gateway (assuming your network is only one subnet).
A little more information about your router and the rest of your network might be useful as well.
If not, is there an easy way to allow all our office's workstations to connect to the server?
For all I know, maybe the idea of letting all our workstations (which are connected to the internet) connect to the server defeats the purpose of having the server not be on the internet.
Of course you may have other reasons for preventing its internet access, if so then if you could tell us maybe we will have some better suggestions.
Simply configure the server to only have LAN access..
For security reasons, we don't want this machine connected to the internet.
However, we do have an intranet with a wiki and all the workstations in the office need to be able to get to pages on our intranet.
As Phoebus said, using ACL's on your firewall to stop access to it..
My question is: Is it just as bad to have our server connected to a machine that's connected to the internet as it would be to have the server connected to the internet itself?
You need to use appropriate firewall ACLs to protect your in-house server.
They can just go to http://wiki and they are there.
If you don't want the content on it browsable by people on the internet then its a simple case of configuring (or not configuring) your router so that it doesn't route requests to the new server.
Of course this does depend on how sophisticated your router is.
Make sure that no incoming traffic from the internet is routed to it, make sure its firewall is running and it is patched and have a policy in place to say it should not be used for internet browsing.
For your server you can also do this for patching purposes or as stated above - just do the reverse and give it the dfgw addrress so it can get out and get patches, driver updates, etc.
Then anyone breaking the policy would have to do so deliberatly.
I don't see how this could easily be done because if the server is connected to the router, it will automatically be on the internet (as far as I understand), and if the server is not connected to the router, I don't know how the other workstations would be able to see it.
We just bought a machine to serve as our in-house production server.
If you are worried about it catching something nasty then I don't think preventing it from having internet access is necessary.
Your internal DNS will direct internal users to the intranet/wiki..