First and foremost, if you have done anything remotely similar to what I have, there's a fair chance you entire filesystem for Windows (the NTFS filesystem) has been corrupted/damaged.
It was terrible, and I'm going to try and spare you the misery.
I really do hope this helps, because it teached me to actually "do as I say", and backup more frequently.
I was literally screwed - I even booted a Linux LiveUSB(stick) and it didn't detect the disk.
I won't walk you through exactly how to use the program, but it's fairly straightforward.
It's a lot to sort through, but it's a small price to pay for your precious data.
The most simple solution to this is to download "TestDisk", and run "PhotoRec".
Give it a disk partition and tell it where to save and it'll spend the next few hours (or days) locating and copying it over.
If re-syncing your hybrid MBR with the GPT tables didn't work, please continue reading.
This might be a bit off topic, but I really want no one to suffer this again, and I know it's a common problem.
As you can guess, my NTFS filesystem was corrupted.
I even synced the GPT and MBR, but I ended up getting "Missing Operating System".
PhotoRec is unique in a way that it pretty much ignored all filesystem stuff, so a damaged filesystem doesn't mean ANYTHING to the program - it just finds your data and gets it to you.
I've said this once, I'll say it a thousand times, back up your data before you do this.
I was too dumb to, and ended up potentially losing days worth of code I've written for an upcoming project, and I would never have rewrote it.
Granted, it's a bit weird, because the data is going to be all over the place.
You'll have to somehow repair the corruption/damage, or flat-out reinstall Windows (to my limited knowledge).
It basically means your data can't be read by "normal" means, but fortunately we have free and open-source software that allows us to go to town on fixing these pesky data loss issues.
note: I'd like to add that I spent 2 days trying to figure out how to resolve this before encountering TestDisk/PhotoRec.
The names won't be saved, nor will the file names, but it seems like the extensions will.
I'd like to note, if it isn't obvious, your Windows partition is now unbootable and completely useless.
I suffered an issue similar to this and I want no one to have to go through what I went through again.
I shrunk my OSX partition so that I could increase my Windows 7 partition.