If you can find something similar (or close) that's my suggestion.
These days it's reduced to doing little more than antispam and attachment blocking.
The cloud does not equal redundancy or availability.
I actually used their chat support and didn't get so fed up that I had to call.
If you have AV running internally on the desktop clients then cloud-based may be worth it.
$12/year per mailbox which seems on par with the others.
Personally our renewal for AV includes the Exchange and end clients, so we have both in place, but it will depend on how locked down your client machines/network is etc... as to how comfortable you are with it.
We rely heavily on the MessageLabs service for our external protection - if we have an internal infection, then we have to deal with that, but at least we know we won't be passing it on to others, and that nothing should be coming in from outside, so we can focus on securing the internals.
I am currently reccommending forefront ot most of my clients for exactly that reason.
And ML has been very reliable for both spam and AV (more so than any internally based scanning engine ever could be).
Our Exchange aware antivirus product is due to be renewed in a little over a month.
I think the real question is, do you want to trust the desktops AV to screen the mail.
For example I've worked with multiple clients that had email issues that were directly traced back to messagelabs being (at least temporarily) unable to process their messages, and increasing the SMTP queue length to very large numbers.
It depends on how important email is to your business.
The pricing model (based on an enterprise cal) give the benefits of running both without additional cost.
As you mention none of that will be screening internal mail.
It's unreal how you can call for tech support and get someone on the phone in a minute who can fix your problem.
Part of me is tempted by a cloud or edge solution such as Google Message Security or an Ironport as it appears to offer more, but I keep coming back to wondering whether I'm entirely comfortable not running something at the Exchange level to deal with any internal threats.
I have used messagelabs and postini (acquired by google) but I'd have to recommend Appriver securetide.