And when you get a background app to foreground - another batch of data from RAM must go to HDD, just to make space in RAM for previous batch to come back from HDD (this time writing and reading many MBs from disk drive).
Most paging will be with executable and other mapped files, and a pagefile in RAM will do nothing to improve this performance.
The result is that pagefile access will be faster but overall paging levels will be higher with a reduction in performance.
And remember - it happens often, when you really make use of multitasking (nowadays common, as well as memory-consumming apps).
I disbelieve it would be pointless in terms of performace, not to mention hard drive reliability.
I agree that putting the swap file on a ramdisk doesn't make sense for a 64-bit OS.
Yes, paging files are used even if one has lots of RAM; but the simple existence of a paging file is not by itself a factor affecting system performance.
This is why I'm looking for a solution to prepare my host's Linux Ramdisk as a blockdevice and format it to FAT or NTFS in order to make it acceptable for guest OS's virtual disk, to put pagefile on it.
And thanks to the reduced system ram available there will be more of this paging.
More and more of you are lucky to own a machine with plenty of RAM.
However, if one has 32-bit WinXP, then Windows can only "see" the first 3.5GB of RAM.
You have to understand that only a fraction of total paging will involve the pagefile.
Our idea is dedicated to the users of 32-bit Windows, who own PCs with MORE RAM than that nagging 3,5GB limit.
Putting the pagefile on a ramdisk is a ridiculous idea.
However I don't trust them as they seem to be hacks and I don't like taking chance on stability.
A newbie can configure his host system to assign 4GB to the guest 32-bit Windows, and still have lots of RAM.
), I could assign 8GB for guest - virtual 32-2003 and try testing software RAMdisks.
However, using a program such as SuperSpeed RamDisk Plus, one can use the memory above 3.5GB as a ramdisk - and putting the swap file up there makes a tremendous amount of sense (again, on 32-bit XP, not 64-bit Win7).
The point to a paging file, after all, is to be a place for holding (transient) page data when those data are not currently in RAM.
It would be really precious then, to enrich it with a 4GB RAMdisk, assigned to the same guest OS, dedicated for pagefile with no cost of guest's RAM space!
In short, Windows will still use the page file, but you shouldn't notice it as a performance hit.
To avoid critical error system is forced to store some data of background-running applications to pagefile.
So I understand there are few guys out there who really care/need and understand the idea.
Most of you sceptic guys forget the 32-bit Windows RAM limit and miss the fact that you can't put there more code & data into RAM, than the 3,5GB.
If one has more RAM, say, 9GB, the RAM above 3.5GB is completely wasted by WinXP.
However, after disabling the paging file, I saw no real performance improvements.
This is certainly pointless, but that's not our idea.
I've since gone back to using a page file, since windows uses it for things other than virtual memory (I think it also writes crash dumps to it, when you bluescreen) which I need.
Separately, putting temp files in a ramdisk almost always makes sense, performance-wise, unless the anticipated size puts too big a dent in the RAM available to the OS.
I've also blown through my 12GB of RAM several times, and was thankful I had the wiggle room.
Typically it means writing tens and hundreds of MB on the hard disk.
Windows will continue to use the swap file, which (much to my confusion, since I have an identical setup) didn't make any sense to me.
 Just observe your red HDD activity LED - it lights more than stays off (your HDD works really hard).
OK, most machines built in the XP era weren't based on mainboards capable to support more than 4GB of RAM.
Putting a paging file on a RAM disc is daft, moreover.
Placing temporary files on a RAM disc is a wholly different kettle of fish, of course.
Now imagine all of these operations redirected to EXTRA RAMdisk (extra RAM, beyound the system's operational memory area which remains the same in size - maximum).
As for temp files, moving those to a ram disk should increase their access speeds, though make sure that you won't need anything in there to persist through a reboot/crash and that the ramdisk driver loads and creates the ramdisk before any applications or the system needs to use the temp folder.
I believe my server would boost and save lots of disk effort.
For example, a machine equipped with 8GB, running 32-bit XP or Vista or 2003.
Or, you just believe we're trying to "cut off" say 2GB out of the accessible 3,5GB - for fast pagefile, with the cost of reducing available memory down to 1,5GB.
When you work hard with many applications simultaneousely, the system often faces condition of exhausting memory.