In regards to the antivirus updates - No, unless it's Microsoft's offering.
For WSUS you will need a Windows server, I believe 2003 onwards.
System Centre Updates Publisher (SCUP) is part of System Centre Config Manager (the latest version of what used to be called SMS).
An (outdated) list of catalogs is available here http://www.microsoft.com/smserver/partners/itcucat.mspx more can be found by querying suppliers web sites.
You can download the WSUS server software from Microsoft, as well as implementation documentation.
These include Adobe (for Flash player, requires agreeing to their distribution agreement, here), HP, Dell, Sun and Citrix.
Neither the API nor support for 3rd party software has yet to be seen.
When WSUS was released Microsoft told us that by version 2 it would be able to support 3rd party software that used the correct API.
Unfortunately I'm not aware of any anti-virus companies that make their updates available in a SCUP compatible catalog.
Client machines can be configured through policies, either local or group, to connect to a specific server for their updates, as well as the other WU settings.
This can be beneficial if there are updates you DON'T want computers to get, or if you want to spread out how an update due to the size (Like Service packs which are very big and can choke your network if you don't space out the computers downloading it.)
It is also able to report to you what computers have what updates and lets you know when computers have issues with installing updates.
WSUS is basically Microsoft updates but it pulls it inside your network and gives you control over what updates a computer gets.
This gives you pretty good control over the risks of unpatched systems.
Most of them use their own proprietary server products to distribute updates within a company LAN.
A number of 3rd parties supply update catalogues that you can subscribe to in SCUP in addition to Microsoft's WSUS update catalog.
SCUP is Microsoft's upgraded Enterprise version of WSUS that uses the WSUS engine but is able to push out updates to 3rd party software as well as normal Microsoft updates.