If that fails, i'm afraid you would need to Nuke your harddrive and re-install.
What i would do in your situation is firstly use a program like CCleaner to remove any programs that look "off" (i.e.
In my task manager, my network usage was 7Mbps when idle, the graph was almost a flat line.
This is one of the lines in wireshark that came like the others
This is the manual technique for getting rid of viruses.
What you are dealing with could either be a (screencapture)keylogger, or even a botnet (if it is indeed a virus).
windows tune up, PCProtector, or any other unknown names), most of the time, these kind of virusses and escpecially malware are installed by accident, while installing other programs, it happens you forget to uncheck a box with "want to install malware program too?
Wireshark captured lots of traffic, turning it on for 5mins will result in a 500mb file.
Microsoft Security Essentials is a good free antivirus program.
Virus removal needs to be done in safe mode so that the virus is not active while you are trying to remove it.
Malwarebytes 1.75 (not the new version, the new version sucks) is more aggressive than MSE and helps to detect malware that is borderline but not detected as viruses by many anti-virus programs.
If this fails, and you are sure it is a Virus affecting your PC (which sounds rather likely), your last option would be throwing Hiren at it, o your favourite preferred bootdisc.
There is a large amount of UDP traffic in my network card, I installed Wireshark and there was large amounts of UDP traffic, all of them are from the same source and destination.
I looked up at the process monitor but there was very little network activity used by processes, but there was obviously medium network usage in the graph.
Spam the F8 key while the computer is booting to get into safe mode.
after all of that, make SURE you remove the threats in Malwarebyte's quarantain tab, and restart your PC.
After that, i storngly reccommend using the program Malwarebytes to scan your system for malware and rootkits (while scanning after updating malwarebytes, it is safe to temporary disable your internet).
I used AVAST to scan during boot time but there was nothing.
I ensured that Teamviewer, Steam, Skype, Chrome weren't active.
It is more thorough if you know what you're doing.
2) Manually remove the virus using Sysinternals Autoruns to spot suspicious autoruns and to turn those autoruns off, then note the file paths and delete those files.
Once I tried to scan with Norton Internet Security and it told me that SONAR broke, I tried to press the FIX button but it failed again.
This is the automated technique for getting rid of viruses.
If the virus is active while you are trying to remove it, it can lock the files you need to delete, restart itself, and all sorts of other unpleasant things.