Read about PGP or GnuPG, both of which will do what you need.
Hey guys I was wondering how would I gzip 7z tar or just regular zip a directory like this /var/Backups/Tones regular gzip won't do it because Tones is a directory and this site ss64.com/bash doesn't really tell much and I've searched google but what those people are talking about is computer based not mobile and I'd like to also make the archive password protected if its possible?
Like 7z, you won't be able to password-protect your tar with a single command line.
If the zip command is included in your jailbroken iDevice, then you can use a command like:
Note that this isn't nearly as secure as a properly designed scheme using PGP or GnuPG, so if you can figure out that method (and the complexity doesn't compromise your security), you'll be further ahead.
If you're comfortable using the 7z command, you can give it a -p{password} option, according to the man page.
It goes on to say, where  security  is  truly  important, use strong encryption such as Pretty Good Privacy instead of the relatively weak standard encryption provided by zipfile utilities.
This will be used on an iDevice like iPad iPhone and iPod when jailbroken; they have 7z gzip and tar.
To help with clean-up, if you have it installed, you might use:
My problem now is when I go to extract that archive on my iPhone it doesn't even ask for a password am I doing something wrong?
There may be (or "there certainly are") other ways to do this.
Further, the gzip command also doesn't provide any password protection.
Note that you'll need to set up gpg before this will work.
If you want help writing the script, please post what you've got so far, so we can provide feedback.
Read the documentation for openssl to find out how to get it not to ask for a password on the command line.
A simpler option may be to compromise on your compression, and just use ZIP with the -9 option for the most compression it can muster.
You may wish to treat this as a starting point for further research of your own.
Ok I got the compression for the directory to work using this:
Note that the man page for zip says of the -P option: THIS IS INSECURE.
This leaves tarfile.tar in place, so you'll need to clean up with something like:
As for password protection, that is an option neither of tar nor p7zip.