This difference also explains your observed (correct) behaviour.
That seems a bit odd, as it could cause programs to behave differently than they do either as the original user, or as root.
It's also illustrative to do "sudo printenv" and compare to just "printenv," which actually surprised me a bit.
As such it has replaced having a root users on many distributions including Ubuntu.
Sudo temporarily grants who ever you are (given you are allowed to sudo in the first place) root level privileges.
The reason this is useful is that with this setup multiple people can have root rights yet all the logging and so on still indicates who did the changes.
If you want to show That Fred is executing something as sudo, che3d the SUDO environment variables, SUDO_COMMAND might be the most useful.
It shows that [i]some[/i] exported variables are available and and others are not: it reports the invoking user's HOME, PATH, PS1, SHELL, TERM, and EDITOR, but not others like MANPATH, CVSROOT, LD_LIBRARY_PATH, or ENV.
To be root, you'd have to log in as root which is blocked in Ubuntu by default.
"The real and effective uid and gid are set to match those of the target user…"
The backticks are obviously doing what others explained, expanding whoami before invoking 'sudo', and leaving the backticks off return 'root', as expected.
But, what's happening to you is that the back ticks are being evaluated before sudo runs, as they're needed to evaluate the command.
So it appears that the observed behaviour has nothing to do with the difference between effective and real user id.
But it's useful to understand what is actually happening with sudo(8).
sudo allows you to run any command with root privileges, but not as root user.
The subshell (whoami) is executed first, as you, and the result (myuser) is placed into the sudo command; what sudo sees is echo myuser.
Your whoami in back ticks is actually evaluated in a subshell as the current user, which is why you see what you do.
You need to be careful with this, sudo is not root.
sudo su on the other hand makes you the root users and therefore should not really be used.