All of a sudden, my Windows 7 PC has started to suddenly reboot without warning shortly after starting up a game, and I'm curious if I should suspect the video card or the power supply being at fault.
Initially thinking that the driver update last night started the problems, I did a system restore back a few days to version 360.97.
Towards the end of the day, I upgraded my Nvidia drivers from 360.97 to 310.90.
Instead, my screen goes black, and my system seems to hang.
I RMA-ed the card to MSI, who sent me a replacement.
I played games for a few hours yesterday with no problem.
Oddly, after turning off the automatic reboot option in Window's Startup and Recovery options, I don't see a true blue screen of death when this happens.
After a few days of this, the card permanently died, and I couldn't get any video output from it.
It seems too soon for the replacement video card to be going bad too.
After another 30 or so minutes of gaming, I had no problem.
So, I'm wondering now if I've managed to burn out yet another video card, or if this is a sign of something different - say, my power supply unit slowly going bad and not being able to provide enough power to my system when my video card starts kicking into gear.
Is there any way I can tell what might be going wrong for sure?
Windows 7 Pro x64, ASRock Z68 Extreme4 Gen3 motherboard, Intel i5-2500K CPU, 16 GB RAM, MSI GTX 560 Ti video card, OCZ 500W PSU (I can't remember how old the PSU component is, though I'd guess at least 3-4 years)
This morning, however, I can't load up a game for more than a minute before it causes my screen to go black (again, it was automatically rebooting at this point until I set Windows to stop doing that).
Without a true blue screen appearing, I can't tell what it is that is failing.
I saw the same black out/system hang behavior still, so I did a clean reinstall of the drivers, only to see the same issue still occur.
(I had a similar situation about a month ago, where I started getting graphical artifacts in my games for a a few minutes before my system would in fact get a true BSOD, which indicated an issue with the video driver.