As for creating separate networks, industrial advanced routers or switches (such as ones Cisco produce, for large prices and severely overkill for a house) can create different VLANs (Virtual LANs) and force bandwidth to be equally shared.
You have a main router that all other routers plugin to, then each router will allow access for separate groups of people with one or more devices with optional wifi.
If you use multiple routers, all traffic will be shielded from eachother until they leave their private network.
With 150Mbps, everyone should definitely have enough for regular usage.
Some consumer routers even allow managing bandwidth per connected device which will work in this case because the routers will be connected the moment you set things up, but even if you can only do bandwidth management for the overall connection, if you setup the upload cap below what the internet connection can handle, it should counteract congestion, which is the ultimate goal you want to achieve.
For example, if there was a house occupied by 3 people and they had a router connected to a line and their broadband speed was 150Mbps.
Sorry if it's a stupid question, I'm not that familiar with how a network works.
As each router comes into your main router, you can manage access from the main router through QoS.
Or is this something that just isn't possible without having several lines coming into the house?
You simply need a main router plus 3 routers and/or 3 access points.
Is it possible to create multiple access points from one network?
This is the optimal route to go because it allows for much more customization.
If you are moving in, then you should consult the head of the house or all come to an agreement for QoS settings, to prevent any social problems that may arise from what can be seen as "stealing" web bandwidth.
Would they be able to set something up that allowed them to create 3 separate "networks" so each person in the house could connect to their own access point and share the bandwidth equally?
Each device can be managed from the router and most consumer routers will have a QoS setting.
I'll soon be moving into a house with several others and like to stream a lot, I don't want to have to stop because I don't have enough bandwidth due to someone else downloading something, or streaming TV etc.
However, most every router will automatically manage the bandwidth going into a device (and often based on what is being transferred using QoS ) such that the bandwidth is equally shared anyway.
This won't be possible unless you have 3 lines going in, well, as you want it so.
They will be able to see eachother's devices with this method, but they have separate logins which can be blocked if you need to.
However, intense streaming or gaming may take precedence over Web browsing - unless you manually set the QoS settings to prioritise a service or a device.
If you use access points, you can setup different SSID and password combination and hook them up to the same router.