Rather open the advanced settings menu in the software and then open the equalizer settings.
I stumbled on the realtek audio console when plugging in my headphone jack as a popup menu.
There simply increase the gain of the various frequencies and and the filter settings to one which suits you the best.I found that changing the peaking option to high shelving almost doubles the loudness !
I clicked on the settings tab for Speakers and found all of the Equalizer Settings for the speakers.
I started a youtube video in the background and went back to the Equalizer while the video was playing and adjusted the settings to my desired levels.
Even with the volume all the way to "11", the volume on my Asus laptop is often not loud enough.
After some searching I found the culprit to Audio Wizard.
As mentioned in an answer, make sure that the Windows (or other OS) parameters on Sound/Speakers are set to maximum.
If drivers are OK, check if some installed sound drivers offer you customization of some kind (different than windows parameters) where you could maybe increase the volume.
If at this point you still want to increase the volume it is possible to some extent but it will very likely result in some quality decrease.
Not possible on my Asus but it was an option on my previous laptop (MSI) so it's worth checking.
You can install third-party software designed to increase the volume such as Letasoft Sound Booster or DFX Audio Enhancer.
You can surely find quite a lot of them online with a quick search, I don't have any personal recommendations.
But to be safe make sure all sound-related drivers are correctly installed and up-to-date.
I bought Asus Vivobook in September 2019 and found the audio loudness to be very low.
For instance VLC Media Player will allow you to set the volume higher than Windows Media Player, same with MusicBee versus Itunes, etc.
For an incomplete workaround, lots of software differ in how they manage sound and volume and may allow for much "louder" sound delivery.
It allows you to mess around with the sound and has several settings such as "music" "movie" etc.
I increased the sound by close to double what it was when I got the computer!!!
I found out how to solve this problem on my own 2019 laptop and couldn't find it anywhere else on the internet, so although this was posted two years ago, I am leaving it here for posterity.
(When you plug in a pair of headphones or a speaker, smart audio will pop up automatically, and in the bottom right corner you'll see the icon and something like "open audio wizard").
I think it was just dampening certain frequencies for effect.
Sound may be low but it should definitely be audible.
Later, I found the actual program or App, in the windows drop down menu.
Once you find it Realtek Audio Console, there will be two options for adjusting the settings for Microphone and Speakers.
After deleting this, the volume on my laptop became significantly louder.
I actually have an Asus Vivobook myself and the sound is actually pretty low to be honest so it could be normal yet annoying.
Some ASUS machines come with a software called Audio Wizard.