If you are a bootstrapped web start-up, I would recommend leasing a virtual private server (VPS) instead of buying hardware.
You configure the Mac Mini, ship it to them, and they hook it up.
They fully own their entire data center and their support is superb.
Who's going to handle hardware, who's going to handle remote console access?
If you want a similar machine, you can rent a £39 server from ovh.co.uk, that's way better
Excuse me, with ibm blade servers with dual xeon running on ebay for 90 euro, why you would use an ultra-slow computer, with a notebook cpu, a slow 5400rpm notebook hdd, and no raid support?
Remote management is probably nonexistent, or at least weak considering comparable solutions.
a VMWare or Xen instance, if a Mac Mini could do the job.
In fact, there's a company who exclusively hosts Mac Mini's in a data center in Nevada (Google 'Mac Mini Colocation').
Of course doing this would also mean you no longer have physical access to the hardware.
Some of the advantages of Slicehost are that they:
If you're intent on using Mac Mini's, they will work just fine as little servers.
Their 256 slice costs $20/month and provides 256MB RAM, 10GB storage, and 100GB monthly bandwidth.
It implies significant unstated requirements, such as bandwidth or storage.
Both of these slices are running Ubuntu 9.04 with Apache, PostgreSQL, and Perl/CGI.
Or a cost breakdown that makes it clear you're paying for wasted rackspace.
You get to own your hardware and have it hosted in a secure data center environment with lots of bandwidth.
For an additional $5/month you can get backups as well, although for my customer facing website, I just backup the data to my MacBook.
I don't think with $900, they will rent you a mac mini...
I've been using LiquidWeb (Google it) for my dedicated servers for years now.
You get a slice of a server and only pay for the memory, disk space, and bandwidth that you actually need (and VPS 'hardware' can be upgraded with a single click).
Is the plan to colocate a Mac Mini with external hard drives?
While building your own server and hosting it yourself will save you money, it won't save you time or headaches down the road (and hosting is really dirt cheap, especially VPSes; see below)
Depending on what these requirements are, advice might vary significantly.
I've used Slicehost for the past 2.5 years with no problems.
You should explain in detail the $900-$1500/month cost.
For example, if it's storage, you'll get overcharged by someone else handling the hardware - but you want something rack-efficient and maintainable, not a Mac Mini.
Other options you should consider with regards to cost (if you haven't already), are Virtual Private Servers (two companies I've heard great stuff about are SliceHost and Linode).
More importantly, however, will be the reliability and bandwidth of your Internet connection and future migration of your application to a data center and/or better hardware when your application begins to demand it.
Honestly any colo provider should at least give you an "are you sure you wan to do this" if you ask for that.
I also use a 256 slice with OpenVPN to server as our company's intranet and host our web-based accounting package, which is currently LedgerSMB.
Before I say anything about Mac Mini's, I want to mention that you can rent a dedicated, fully managed server for around $200 a month (fully managed doesn't mean they touch the software or O/S; it just means if something goes wrong with the hardware or the network, on-site engineers will fix it immediately; an invaluable service!).
If it's bandwidth, the discussion might involve separating the bandwidth requirements from the hardware requirements, and finding ways to meet the bandwidth requirements cost-effectively.
Con's of using a Mac Mini: From what it sounds like you're trying to do, the con's of using 'non-server-grade' machines from a hardware perspective are not many.
However, as other people have commented, the Mac Mini and a VPS or other leased server are in different categories to some extent.
You get root access and can choose what O/S you want installed.
Instead of an optical drive, it offers two 500GB SATA drives, so that you can run RAID 1.
If you really want to go the co-lo Mac Mini route, I would recommend the Mac Mini with Snow Leopard Server released earlier this week.