As you don't actually change the content of the files, just the meta data, I'm not sure Dropbox even sees that as a change.
but many of these groups are not eligible for the purpose because of several reasons which I'm skipping here.
You would use takeown.exe and icacls.exe, test this with a limited number of files and then apply your access rules to all files.
If you plan to use your files from more than one Windows installation, say using dual-boot or may install a fresh Windows at some time replacing the old installation, it is never a good idea to assign file permissions to a user or a group you created.
I am the only user of this computer (with a Microsoft account) and the account type is 'Administrator'.
Your new Windows installation doesn't know anything about this user/group that's why it couldn't show the name but had to show the internal id (called SID) of the user/group something like: S-1-5-21-555548493-16897873-2819830480-1002
That's all about the future, you current data drives still have a problem, you have no choice but giving the Administrators group ownership of all files and then assign the desired correct permissions.
The weak solution is to take 'personally' possession (assign a user-based permission, which is not recommended) – have my user (Microsoft) account become the owner and have full access.
Personally I use the Replicator group, you could also use the Remote Desktop Users group, if giving the user RDP access is not a problem.
(By the way, the current D: is the former F:, which got the drive letters swapped).
I have a Windows 10 PC with five hard drives, each one functioning as a partition.
Eventually I had to format my C: drive to get a fresh Windows installation.
Question 2: How can I prevent this from happening next time I format my C: drive?
But I still can't access those drives; I get an 'Access denied' message.
I inspect the security tab under the properties of the drive, and I see 'SYSTEM' and 'Administrators' have full access and control, as well as a rogue "unknown" account beginning with letter "S" and a bunch of characters.
Because these groups have the same internal SIDs on every Windows installation, the file permissions stay intact.
The problem is: this assigns this new identity to ALL files in those drives, and one contains my 650GB Dropbox folder, while the other contains my equally 650GB OneDrive mirror.
But the hassle was so strong I regret doing that: turns out the previous installation assigned an user identity to each partition (SID?).
Now, I can only access the C: drive and, curiously, the D:, but not the E: to G:.
I can't use the icacls * /T /Q /C /RESET command because I don't have access to those drives to begin with.
If membership of the users group is not granular enough for you, you can use other builtin windows groups to assign permissions.
I doubt Dropbox is copying the NTFS ACLs into the cloud, but I'm not sure about that.
Since all files' metadata are modified with this procedure, I have to resync ALL my data to both clouds all over again, which is unacceptable.
I use the C: partition for the OS and the others for data, backup, and so on.
While using your previous Windows installation, you gave file permissions to a user or a custom group.