I then have to clear the search box manually, and then I can type to search.
For example, if I've previously run Skype by hitting start, typing 'skype' and hitting Enter, a few minutes later I'll press 'Start', start typing (lets say, 'word' to run MS Word) and find that my new search is being appended to the word 'skype'.
Side note, my post is in no way meant to start a flame war.
I've been using Windows 8 across a number of different workstations and VMs, and noticed a strange behaviour with the start menu that I'm starting to think is a bug.
This may not be the solution you're looking for if you want to keep the Windows 8 shell as Microsoft intended it.
It may not be the ideal solution but it will work.
However, there are occasions where I'll hit the Start key and my old search is still populated in the search box.
From what I can see, it's a fairly annoying regression.
The reason I went this route was because it gave me the best of both worlds, it didn't totally disable the new features if I wanted to get to them.
This will obviously result in no hits, as I have no applications installed called 'skypeword'.
I have also encountered it and have not found a way to fix it natively in Windows.
With enough characters input, the program you wanted was selected as the first item found and you could hit Enter to run it.
I had already decided to use a Start Menu replacement app and that fixed the behavior for me by recreated how it behaved in Windows 7 (I went with Start8 which is paid, but there are also freeware programs like Classic Shell that will do the same thing).
Pretty much everyone else I've spoken to who runs Win 8 as a power user hasn't encountered this, so I wonder if it's some behavious I'm using which is causing this.
In Windows 7, the quickest way to launch an application was to hit the start menu and just start typing.
The point being that when you hit the 'Start' key, the search box was always blank.
In Windows 8, I have the same experience, most of the time.