What you might have, however, well hopefully have, is less "odd crap" on the system that might trip an upgrade up.
I wouldn't really want to take all of this 'baggage' on to a new OS with me.
You'll sleep better knowing you have a default install that 99% of the world uses and manufacturers ship with.
I'd just ask yourself why you'd want to upgrade and what's your rollback plan?
I don't think the server path for upgrades is any better than the workstation path.
As for a rollback plan as chopper3 suggests, thats really important too.
If minimal downtime is your prime concern then copying the system's drives, performing an upgrade, testing the upgrade, then rolling back if something has gone wrong, it not the way to go.
This way the only downtime you have is the time it takes to perform that final sync before switching over (steps 5 and 6) - this might be a while if the final sync includes copying some large files (such as one or more big databases) over, but this will be less time than a taking a complete backup image and upgrading will take and has the advantage of no downtime if it fails (as you just drop the new setup without ever turning the old one off).
You need to grab a practice image, possibly into a virtual machine, and test how the upgrade goes for you, see how your apps behave on an upgraded system and decide if the time taken to upgrade server, upgrade your apps, and debug is less than the time taken to build a new system and migrate across.
Of course this plan means having a second server in the same facility to build on which will not be free, so if you are paying a fair chunk for your server/hosting or are otherwise on a tight budget this might be a prohibitive factor...
Go with the widest tested setup rather than the least.
My main reason for not doing upgrades is cleanliness and disk space.
Make sure you don't start the upgrade process until you're sure you can restore a backup of the Windows 2003 server you're upgrading.
Oh yeah, unless you are virtualising the production machine, check the hardware is compatible with Win 2008.
Not for the reason that there might be problems with the upgrade, but because there are other plans that will most likely result in far less downtime from your users' point of view.
The last point is that I had lots of Dell servers which were sat on 12Gb System partitions, as service packs and patches have been applied over the years the amount of disk space has just diminished with no nice solution available.