* Because that is the scope of testing that was done when it was UL listed.
But don't do it, when you have way more reliable power readily available on the outer side of the UPS.
Apart from low-probability scenarios, the single most important reason an unnecessary UPS really cheeses people off is that a year or two from now, it will start beeping.
No matter what alternate calculations or measurements or precautions YOU took, a third party planner or inspector HAS to assume that the power feed to such a unit needs to be dimensioned for what is on the label of that unit.
Yes, use an UPS when you have to place your rack in a utility closet of an 18th century farm house.
Right next to the other rack you are trying to get some work done on.
An UPS needs regular battery replacements, and it usually tells about it by making a really annoying beeping noise that goes on forever.
Also, all common battery systems are a chemical hazard - outgassing (lead acid batteries can generate flammable gas if a charger fails in the wrong way), leakage and subsequent corrosion (in the worst case of someone else's equipment.
), fire (especially with new-school lithium systems that seem to be entering the market - also, a fire safety system designed to deal with an electrical or battery gas fire might not be designed to deal with a metal fire!)...
This has nothing to do with IT, I am referring to "isole terre", meaning a floating-ground AC mains supply that could cause severe injury without any RCD type device interfering!
This section is partner to 110.2, which requires only approved equipment be used.
Most have something like NEC 110.3b, "equipment must be used according to its labeling and instructions".
Also, while you might say "worst it can do, should it unexpectedly draw all of its rated power, is trip an overcurrent device, which is rated for the ampacity of all wiring behind it" - in a multi-tenant situation, this happening can affect other customer equipment.
Personnel that is well experienced and trained in both types of hazards with their own choice of equipment could have a hard time dealing with your equipment if there is any incendent - not knowing eg how to shut it down NOW and RELIABLY if there is an electrical accident downstream of the unit, or how to quickly and safely remove a battery that failed catastrophically.
I can think of two things that this might help with, and that is providing you with the ability to network control your own power to nodes for the purpose of on-demand full node shutdown/poweron and power-based fencing for clustering.
If your UPS says "do not feed from a UPS" or if the datacenter's UPS says "do not supply UPS's", then you place the datacenter in dutch with the electrical codes.
And every unscheduled reboot or disturbance of customer equipment, even if it is still within SLA tolerances, drastically worsens that customer's satisfaction with the provider.
If your colo does not offer these features and you need them, go elsewhere with your business.
And it will keep making that noise for days (or months), because whoever installed it and didn't maintain it, also couldn't be bothered to configure any remote alerts on it.
Also, most UPS units can easily form an "IT" type mains on their own by accident - which presents an electrical hazard.
That gives the instructions the same force of law as the Code itself.
TL;DR for next two paragraphs: Corrosive liquids, flammable gasses, electrocution hazards.
Most rack-style UPS units have, according to their label specifications, significantly higher input wattages than the equipment they are used to feed.
And adding insult to injury, all this happened, because someone wouldn't trust the much better UPS system already in place.
Lead-Acid batteries contain sulfuric acid, which is the very definition of a corrosive chemical!
if you bring in equipment of a brand/model/design and/or in a condition that differs from what the personnel in that datacenter knows well in practice, it will mean an unknown risk and extra training requirements.