If you have another drive available that is equal to or larger than the failing drive the easiest way to attempt a recover in my experience is to use a tool called dd-rescue.
Example of the USB board that would be inside of the enclosure:
Once you have determined the type of filesystem you are using on that disc you can attempt to repair the filesystem as you did before on Windows in Linux using the fsck command: (make sure you are using the fsck that matches your specific filesystem type.
This will return a list of devices and in each line there will be a "Type" which will reveal the filesystem:
For an NTFS partition, you can do chkdsk /F /R /B /X, which does the most complete checking.
In fact I would recommend that you perform the attempted repair on the backup image instead.
Depending on how the filesystem was mounted the ls command could indeed corrupt the filesystem if it is changing file, or directory meta-data; specifically by updating access time.
Have another drive ready to copy files, and backup your data next time.
It should be noted that Linux is not always good at repairing ntfs or fat partitions and so this should not be attempted until you have verified your backup.
You can also manually use dd to make an image of the entire drive into a file.
If the hard drive is large this may take a very long time.
I am sure this is not what you want to hear, but professional data recovery can open up the drive and preform other procedures that simply are not possible to do on your own.
Be aware that this takes a lot of time depending on your hard drive.
Once you have eliminated any hardware issue, you can try to run Testdisk to see what it can recover.
More information on this command can be found here:
Unplugging the drive while it is writing anything will cause errors in the filesystem, especially in filesystems that do not have good journaling features (such as FAT32) These errors can normally be corrected with fsck.
If you open a cmd and enter chkdsk /?, it comes up with all possible options.
I would recommend you explore Seagate Recovery Services for more information.
If you have a hardware issue with the drive,  it will show up here.
If it does have encryption - you really need to get that board working, and should try to get with someone good with electronics/soldering to replace the USB connector or solder a cable directly to the pads on the board (which hopefully are not ripped off).
You can install this from apt-get on a root terminal under Ubuntu, or download and run the Windows version.
If there is a media problem with the drive, you'll get messages about bad blocks.
It may be better to use a smaller block-size argument so that you risk losing less data when errors are encountered.
Open a root terminal, and type tail -f /var/log/kern.log, maximize this window.
It is very difficult to determine if a hard drive is actually failing unless your hard drive has features like SMART enabled.
If it's a problem with the USB connection, you'll get messages saying "Unable to enumerate device" or similar.
I believe that these services start at around $500 and go up, sometimes dramatically depending on how much effort it takes to recover data.
Firstly you should ascertain the type of filesystem used on that drive.
Here is an example of how you might accomplish this manually:
You would also need to be sure that you had enough disc space on whichever disc you plan to create the backup image and also be sure that the filesytem in use supports files large enough to contain the size of the entire drive.
Assuming your model of external hard drive does not have encryption features on the USB board, you can remove the drive from the enclosure, directly attach it to a PC, and work with it as any internal drive.
"bs=1024" however this will cause the operation to take even longer.
But it could be a possibility to rescue some data.
Instructions for performing an fsck on a backup file can be found here: mounting-a-raw-partition-file-made-with-dd
If you have a USB connection error, there may be an issue with the USB cable, connector, or USB-to-SATA adapter that's in the hard drive enclosure (broken pins, connector falling off board, etc.)
The hard drive will still work on another system, but you won't be able to get your data.
Data recovery takes expertise, specialized software and tools, hard drive parts and must be done in a clean room.
Depending on how much the data on the drive is worth to you a professional data recovery service may be your best option.
I am very sorry that you are in such a precarious position and I hope that you are able to recover these files.
It is possible that your disc is not failing and that your problem is due to file-system corruption.
Have you tried to do a full disk check with Windows manually?
Unfortunately I do not know of a good way to realistically determine how damaged a hard disc is other than features like SMART which is usually controlled by the BIOS.
Even the best data recovery service may not be able to recover all of your data but they have a much better chance at it than anything you could do on your own.
In the above command /dev/sda is the damaged disc and backup.img is the file that will contain the contents of the entire disc as a backup.
There is no way to repair a failing hard drive without the risk of losing files.