(To be specific, I wouldn't mess around with reducing the CPU fan voltage unless you have another fan directing cool air at the CPU.
In fact, multiple slow moving fans are quieter than one or two overworked ones.
In my setup, I have a 7V side fan blowing external air at the CPU heat sink, a 7V fan on the heatsink, and a 7V exhaust fan pulling air away from the CPU and blowing it out of the top of the case.
You need to make sure you're still getting enough cooling and you need to take particular care if you're reducing the voltage of the CPU fan.
I bought new video card with passive cooling (Power Color HD 5850 256 bit)(I couldn't find similar for now in Ukraine a month ago)
Roughly speaking, two fans running @ 7V will move a bit more air than a single fan running at 12V and will produce far less noise... particularly high-frequency noise, which is what tends to be annoying to our ears.
If you want a silent system, get new, silent fans.
But there are exists later-day solutions with small and rather powerful graphic video cards.
But I'm thinking about some advanced HTPC or nettop with full passive cooling (no fans!)
Here's the cheapest, easiest thing thing you can do: a fan-speed reduction cable.
If the SMPS fans are not working, your power supply would be toast really quickly.
Motherboard fans if there are any in your PC, it might be monitored by the BIOS as well.
But to keep it safe from time to time I kept opened site door of my PC box.
Although it is very highly unlikely that it wouldn cause any fire, chances are high that you would fry these electronic components really fast when these fans are not running.
As a bonus, if one fan should fail, you'll still have another fan running.
:)) PC box with good cooling indicates like in non-chip boxes.
Fans that plug into your motherboard are designed to take 12V.
However, it is very likely that it will cause your system to rapidly overheat, crash regularly and eventually give up all together.
You will need to replace your system with a silent one such as a media centre PC.
It will, however, cause your computer to stop working within about a minute.
Speed reduction cables like these make the fans run on 5V or 7V instead.
I was pretty upset about noise in my regular computer: BOX CPU cooler, chip Chieftec, small fan on the video, and noise HDD...
All those fans are there for a reason, to help dissipate heat and improve air circulation.
Of course, being the cheapest and easiest thing you can do doesn't necessarily make it the best.
I sold my nice PC :) and moved to the laptop usage.
I have found these sites to be a great help in building a silent PC:
I'd thought over some box for HDD to make it silent but never get around to do this.
However, I warn you that, unless you also replace your hard drive with an SSD, it most certainly will not be silent.
Like this http://www.zalman.com/global/product/Product_Img_Pop.php?Idx=311
Like this http://www.ixbt.com/power/psu/enermax_emd525.shtml (sorry, in russian)
http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16812311003
BIOS has checks to make sure the CPU fan is running or it would power off the system automatically after few seconds for the safety of the CPU.
Often, it suit for you if you don't need to play in powerful games.
It is very unlikely that removal of the fans will cause a fire.