They open only those windows which help them work, eschewing the constant harassment of endless e-mail, Twitter, and instant message feeds.
Others have, out of choice or necessity, opted to live a simpler, more modest life.
Depending on your workflow, there are some solutions.
Even today, thousands of our brothers and sisters work happily on machines like the 15" MacBook Pro.
But I have yet to find a decent Window Layout saver. . .
They spend time tiling the windows that they do need so as not to waste a pixel.
They avail themselves of virtual desktops and other modern conveniences only when they lead to actual improvement.
And then the screens got bigger, and the pixels got smaller, but still many were limited to a single monitor, and they were happy.
I find more use out of keeping something temporarily on top/transparent than constantly rearranging windows.
There was a time, long ago, when people felt they were living large on a single 640x480 screen.
I find it even more useful than a virtual desktop, since I find myself switching between arrangements of running programs rather than between sets of running programs.
They switch between code and debug views rather than keeping both visible at all times.
How did anyone ever get by in those barbaric olde tymes?
Sometimes the oldest techniques are the best; limit your code to 80 columns in width, and insist that others do the same.
And we will become accustomed to that, and shortly thereafter we will wonder how anyone ever worked before.
I'd also try an always on-top/transparency program instead of a virtual desktop program.
A day will soon come when eye-tracking laser devices deliver pixels directly onto our retinae to provide work space in every direction for as far as you can see, even as there will be no actual screen.
And they take joy in their ability to take their entire setup with them to Starbucks or a nearby meadow.
Usually, I fire up the find command and it will pick out the file I need to work on.
Some have never experienced the boundless freedom that comes with measuring screen real estate in pixel-acres.
If you are like me and you always have the internet browser pointed to MSDN/Technet or something like that, then arrange the text editor with word wrap.