I do everything remotely unless its actually setting up a new computer or moving hardware or fixing hardware.
For interactive sharing/trouble-shooting I'll use CrossLoop instead.
Unfortunately, I don't have any metrics on savings/profit of remote support.
For my servers, I go RDP or VNC -- or even iLO2 if nothing else works.
In these cases I've bought day-passes at copilot.com, or used a trial version of some other software.
If I base it on about 10 on-site support issues a year (1 day apiece), considering my salary, travel expenses, time away from other issues, etc.
we are probably saving around $4000 to $5000 per year.
We push TightVNC out via group policy to oncampus workstations, and will work with users that way on occasion.
I love the mRemote app to keep everything in one tabbed window.
But there are issues with Vista, anytime Vista asks for User Account Control, UltraVNC drops the connection.
Also since LogMeIn is outbound connections there is nothing to open on the firewall
So I can login via remote desktop to one computer and then remote to any other.
Worth a look if you spend a lot of time on a lot of systems remotely.
Secondary way, All computers have remote desktop turned on as the secondary and the network forwards the remote desktop port to one computer.
We use RDP for just about everything but occasionally use www.GoToMeeting.com if the user needs to see we're doing or vice versa.
Around the office I'll use ChrisControl (download) to "push" a VNC server and then connect when we need to do screen sharing.
I'll filter the IP for forwarding of that port so it only comes from my IP's
Getting through the firewall was a challenge to do, but mostly because I wasn't very familiar with port forwarding.
I also use LogMeIn.com for my personal computers at home.
GoToMeeting is probably not the best solution for lots of support, but we're very happy with it for meetings so it's Convenient for support as well.
I use the free LogMeIn app with many remote clients.
At other times it just seems that UltraVNC won't work at all, for some reason unknown to me.