However, since you can't remove active directory properly, you have to force it to be removed from the server then cleanup manually on a good domain controller.
Repromote the problem server and configure site settings like you would a brand new DC.
Domain controller was setup, then taken offline for longer than the tombstone limit.
Managing the network session with DC1.mydomain.com failed "Logon Failure: The target account name is incorrect."
Everything was working great, so I shut down and got it ready to take out.
Most of the KB articles I went through about fixing replication after reaching the tombstone life got stuck because of the "The target principal name is incorrect" error.
The attempt to establish a replication link for the following writable directory partition failed.
This leaves anything else on the server untouched.
It seems the easiest way is indeed to remove active directory and reinstall it, and it can be done without wiping out the entire server.
But things kept getting delayed for over 2 months, and now dc2 won't replicate properly.
This indicates that the password used to encrypt the kerberos service ticket is different than that on the target server.
The kerberos client received a KRB_AP_ERR_MODIFIED error from the server host/exchange.mydomain.local.
Commonly, this is due to identically named  machine accounts in the target realm (MYDOMAIN.LOCAL), and the client realm.
netdom resetpwd /s:dc1 /ud:domainadmin /pd:domainadminpassword
In preparation for setting up a remote site, I setup a domain controller called dc2, running Server 2003 R2, and configured separate sites in AD Sites and Services, and configured replication from dc1 to dc2.
At the main site, I have two domain controllers (which we shall call exchange and dc1).
On dc2 (identical error messages exist about both exchange and dc1):
I even had it the correct subnet for the remote site by connecting it through a router (this was before the site was connected to the VPN, so no IP conflicts).