Give FOG a look and see if this will work for you.
For the longer term it's best to convince procurement of the advantages of buying exactly the same type/brand/model of computer hardware for this to work smoothly.
I work for a very large University, we use a combination of use Norton Ghost, and a number of other tools to manage our SOE (Standard Operating Environment).
you just need a linux box running ubuntu or fedora, and a HD big enough to store the images
Do this until you have copied the image to each different hardware type and the final image will contain the drivers for every different hardware type.
It would be easiest for you to make a Ghost image on a bootable Dual Layer DVD (We use the BartPE environment, but there are many simple bootable CD/DVD solutions
Have a think about OS deployment using Microsoft SCCM, for example.
You can use them with sysprep as @Col has explained.
Make sure that you install all of the drivers for each of the different PC types on the image you are rolling out.
To do this Audit all of the computers to see what hardware they have got and group them into similar hardware type (usually by motherboard chipset type).
When some new computers (with new hardware) come in, we install our image onto that PC and update the drivers.
With a bit of planning an a little bit of hard work you can make it very easy to manage a very large number of computers with a very small number of people (we have 3000+ PCs and Laptops, 400+ Blackberries, 500+ iPhones, 750+ Printers and there are 8 techs; we still have time for drinks on Friday afternoon!)
I've used DriveImage XML and Norton Ghost to perform the actual drive imaging.
Make an image with Ghost of the biggest group, then install that image onto one of the PCs from the next group of PCs, and update the drivers.
FOG, its a free and open source cloning tool we used at my school, can clone a machine in less than 20 minutes usually.
We also use SysPrep before we image the machines before we make an image.