    Do one of the following: To turn off UAC, move the slider to the Never notify position, and then click OK.
I've always hated this about Windows, it's ridiculous admin antics.
Run Explorer as administrator, go to Windows/system32 and find lusrmgr.exe, right click and choose to create a shortcut, Windows will tell you it cannot create a shortcut in the directory and ask you whether you want it on your desktop.
I think you're talking about the computer asking for admin credentials before allowing you to do certain things?
Is there anything I can do on Windows 10 to make my admin account a fully blown admin account free from restrictions?
If I'm an admin user I want to edit things like my host file without needing to hack around.
This will turn off all prompts asking for Elevated Rights.
You have now made yourself a Super Administrator with absolute control of your Windows 10 computer, you can open any file regardless of whether it is hidden or read-only, whether it is a system file etc.
In the search box, type uac, and then click Change User Account Control settings.
Go to Windows/System32/drivers/etc and open the host file, do whatever you please with it and save.
Right click on the notepad and choose RUN AS ADMINISTRATOR.
Once on your desktop right click on it and choose run as administrator.
    Open User Account Control Settings by clicking the Start button , and then clicking Control Panel.
To edit the host file, first, place a shortcut of your Notepad on the desktop.
Previously on 8.1 I found something for the console that changed my user account to a full admin account and removed the horrible restrictions on the standard admin accounts.
To gain absolute control of your computer and be done with all the restrictions Microsoft imposes on you do the following.
Using lusrmgr.exe delete all users and groups leaving yourself as the Administrator.
add yourself to the admin group and turn off the UAC.
Find your user name, go to its properties, make sure you are in the administrator group and remove yourself from the user group, restart your pc
)Retain your password and make sure it never expires.
Before this can take effect you must restart your computer - cross your fingers or byte your nails praying you did everything right.
At the run prompt, type lusrmgr.msc and then click OK
Give that administrator all the privileges (Full control etc.