Of course, its weakness is maybe you want the Tables near particular other Tables, etc.
So if you have a Table using rows 1-10,048 and a Table using rows 1-6,509, then you cannot insert rows in the 6,509 rows used by both Tables.
You will find other solutions too, but probably for exact problems, not the general one, and so not necessarily useful to you.
What it misses though, is that the other Table/s involved get the same insertions... and maybe you reallllly don't want that...
And, of course, perhaps not having more than one Table per sheet might do it for you.
This is a routine, though unhappy operation because you must do it to a Table if you need to change a formula for going forward rows of data, but keep the old one/s above that point.
There is a lack of exactness in most of the variables in the question, for instance, in the exact error message, so one cannot really differentiate between the Table related problem and the more "usual" (as in "been here for decades" types of problems).
You worked on a diagonal, if you will, setting up the first region in, say, cells A1-D10, then leaving a row AND column empty, and setting up the next region in, say, cells F12-H150.
You could do this with Tables and never encounter this issue.
Another solution would be (using columns this time) to insert some cells to push the offending second Table over, insert your new column/s, then remove the added cells PLUS those added by inserting the column/s thereby restoring the positional relationship of the two (or more) Tables.
Just copy and paste his code, he tells you how to make it happen and it's simple, and the immediate window can only take one line of code per effort, so there's no difficulty at all.
And... hard part... they often STILL appear where you put them... only their anchor is different, so you don't go to the last row and look and yay, find them always.
But it truly sounds like you have a Table related issue.
Or it might have been on purpose though with a million rows, people don't copy a formula into a whole column so much anymore.
Other issues, not Table related, include the very last row of the spreadsheet having a cell with data in the very last row or column so no rows or columns can be inserted whether YOU like it or not.
Given that example, it would be likely you only tried in that set of rows and so did not notice you could have inserted a row between, say, rows 8,234 and 8,235.
If you have objects and comments on your sheet, one's anchor might have been shifted by other things you did and now be anchored to the last row (or column).
(Today... reading such often helps you another day, eh?)
Better than either would be to set up the Tables like we used to set up spreadsheets when you did not have multiple pages.
Incredible amounts of empty space (my first spreadsheet program wasted as many as 600 rows that way when upgraded memory, 600 wasted rows, imagine that...), but you could ALWAYS insert rows or columns at will because no region was either above/below or right/left of any other regions.
Tedious, but pretty simple, though harder if there are thousands of rows to highlight.
One had an answer that used VBA code in the "immediate window" - super easy!
The most likely problem, judging from a number of similar questions and their answers, revolves around Tables.
One is to change one or both (or all 50, if you have 50 of them overlapping the rows you want to insert between), to a Named Range, do the insertions needed, then make it (or them) back into Tables.
I just can't tell from the information given as each bit of it is sort of only 50-75% there, so to speak.
(For example, 100% there is "I tried inserting after row 43 and got this copied and pasted error message" rather than "I tried to insert a row and got an error" - not trying to be harsh about it, just, it helps YOU more to include more and be a little precise and since your goal is helping YOU, it seems like something to value, right?
Think, rolling off the right of a screen and coming back in on the left side, like an old arcade game.
You will need to find such and delete or re-anchor them.
(NOT by accident:  jerk spreadsheet makers DO try to keep you from adding rows or columns (a cell in the last column has something in it in that case) but the error message is a bit different than the Table related error message.)
The basic idea is this:  if Tables "overlap" (use the same rows or columns) then you cannot insert rows where rows are used by both Tables, nor columns where columns are used by both Tables.
They're hiding by LOOKING perfect when they're not.
And you can accidentally find your way there and accidentally place some data in a cell without realizing it.