I lets us or a device distinguish the scope of the network to which it is attached.
It defines how big your neighborhood is, as in Mikhail Khirgiy's example.
if you go into /23 this will get double into 512 (510)
if you go into /25 will go into half of /24 that means 128 (126H)
In the route table local routes are checked first, then routes are processed from most to least specific.
So when you included 25.47.130.1/8 above, this would tend to indicate a specific host in the /8 network of 25.0.0.0/8.
With a /16 mask, Bob only knows people in Brooklyn (assuming Bob himself lives in Brooklyn).
Bob, who knows his town is 25.47.130.0/24, determines that the letter to 25.47.130.2 is local and puts it in the local box.
Generally speaking, when you see a /32 referenced, you are referring to a single host.
Mail that goes in the all other mail box gets sent to a regional sorting/handling post office before it is sent along it's way to the destination.
The mask is there to determine how many other addresses he can send to without any help.
This is actually a very important piece of information for Bob.
The netmask for an IP assigned to a system is used to calculate the entry that will be added to the local systems route table for that IP.
Bob is identified by a numerical value (25.47.130.1/32) lives in a town (represented as 25.47.130.0/24).
The netmask tells the device how to contact other IP addresses.
If the destination is on the local subnet your computer will use the local medium (probably Ethernet) to communicate with the destination directly.
If the destination is not local, your packets will be forwarded to the router with the first matching route in your route table, or the 'default' router/gateway if you don't have any specific routes.
This way local mail can be delivered more directly to the destination (making delivery faster and better for the environment).
The mask just differentiates what part of that 32 character binary string is used to designate the network and which part can be used to designate hosts.
If one or more of the host bits are set to 1, then this typically indicates a specific host within the network of the designated size.
However, typically most network end points (Bobs) simply wouldn't need to know or care about anything more than if the traffic (mail) is local or not.
Whenever a packet is set the local route table is consulted.
with a few words it tells you how many hosts you can add on this network etc /24 is 254 (256-2 broadcast and network)
Extending your example, which takes this out of networking.
In other words, is the traffic sent directly to a local destination or is it handed off to another device to route it to the proper destination.
Anything in the same network, as defined by the netmask, is contacted directly; anything outside the same network has to be contacted via a router (the default gateway, unless there’s a local routing table with an applicable route).
It is the scope of what you are referring to that has changed.
While you are reading the IP address in a dotted decimal format, the address used by computers/network devices is in binary.
With a /8 mask, Bob knows everyone in New York personally.
Yes, they are both the same house, but that doesn't make the mask "irrelevant."
Bob has an old fashioned post office with separate mail boxes, one box for local mail (i.e.
He can hand-deliver a letter to anyone in the city without any help.
If he can't contact the destination, he sends it to his gateway instead.
If he wants to deliver a letter to someone in Queens, he needs to take it to the post office (which would be his gateway address).
You could even extend this further and say that Bob knows his town is located in a state (25.47.0.0/16) and that state is part of a larger country (25.0.0.0/8).
if you go into /22 will go again double of preview that means 1024 (1022H)
To send to anyone outside (even the rest of Brooklyn) he needs to send it through his gateway (maybe the resident manager in this case).
When you use a smaller netmask, such as the /8 in your example, you are defining the size of the (sub)network to which that host is attached.
Bob has two letters to send, one to 25.47.130.2 and one to 35.57.140.2.
With a /24 mask, Bob only knows people in his apartment block.
Adding to my general statement above, when you are referring to a network and not a specific host, the host bits of the address are all set to 0.
Bob now knows that his letter to 35.57.140.2 is out of state and out of country (which may have additional requirements, like additional postage).
However 35.57.140.2 is not in his town, so puts it in the all other mail box.