However, you should consider carefully whether this is the right thing to do.
I have spend a lot of time on the internet getting to know Azure AD Domain Services, and now I know that in basically deploys a couple of Windows VM's to Azure running domain controllers, which are administered by Microsoft.
AAD does not have the feature same as GPO, but AAD DS has.
You need to be confident that either your connectivity to Azure is reliable, or that if it goes down you can cope, before you look at using this solution.
If this goes down, your user authentication goes down (aside from some cached logons obviously).
I did find some articles that mention AAD DS is intended for managing Windows Server VM's within Azure, and not for client PC's, but these articles are somewhat outdated.
No, AAD DS used for manage Azure VMs(server), not same as Intune.
We know that we can join a Windows 10 PC to Azure AD with Azure domain join, but this does not give us the "management power" like a real domain with it's GPO does.
It was expected that the machines accessing AAD DS would be in Azure on the Azure network and so connectivity was not an issue.
I need to do DNS settings in my VNET's in Azure and so on.
Or do I need to set up a site-to-site VPN from office to the AAD DS subnet first?
Yes, we can join on-prem client PC to AAD DS, but we should setup a site-to-site VPN.
Could someone please explain to me if AAD DS is a good solution to manage Windows 10 client instead of products like Intune, or is it really intended to be used for management of "other" VM's within Azure?
From a technical perspective, yes you can create a VPN connection to Azure and have your client machines joined to the AAD DS domain, it will work.
My big question is, is AAD DS designed / usable for client PC's at the customers office?
You are right, AAD DS is different with on-prem DS.
So, it's a real "AD domain", which I have limited access to.
AAD DS was designed as a solution for lift and shift of applications from on premesis to Azure that needed a full AD Domain to work with.
If we then join on premises machines to AAD DS you are now reliant on your VPN connection (and the internet connecting it is using) or ExpressRoute for your authentication.