At the same time, they must create a graphics engine (if they are not using a pre-made one), and code everything in the game from scratch.
When creating the first game in the series, programmers need to use large amounts of time just thinking about what the game is going to be about, the story behind it, and how to organize the game's code.
Yes, they can work on a new IP, but there's going to be issues with the content at some point since the content creators are busy with something else.
¤ The hiring process of game developers can be very tedious, hard and hazardous: letting go a developer to re-hire them later means more paperwork to do for the laying-off, more HR money spent on re-hiring them (even more paper work), the risk of them being hired by another company in the interval (intermediate and senior developers can be hard to find), the risk of them demanding a higher salary when re-hiring them, etc.
Spectacle creep is why games strive to be more over the top than the last installment.
It's not a requirement; it depends on the game, it depends on the team, it depends on the studio.
From the point of view of the investor, when someone invests in a sequel, there is usually a larger budget and an existing fanbase.
Because otherwise the programmers would need to be fired.
An employee laid-off is a also some knowledge that a company loses.
From the point of the designer, there were tons of ideas and features that were tested during development of the first game, some of which the designer liked a lot, but which had to be cut for money and time constraints.
Replacing an employee is costly because they have to learn the processes and the tools, etc.
If you want to make a sequel (on the same platform) less than the original, better not to make it a sequel but start a new brand or sub-brand instead.
For an indie developer, working alone on their game, if the first instalment of the game was story based, and what came up in the review was mostly along the lines "nice little game, great story", it would perfectly make sense to spend little time on beefing up the gameplay, and a lot of time on creating a great story for the sequel.
So instead of firing them to not waste money, it's a good idea to make them work on the sequel to improve it and give users reasons to buy it (other than "Oh well, they've expanded the story and changed the graphics.
Ok, it's a bit extreme, and not the only reason, but it's one to think about.
I'm surprised that nobody has mentioned reusing code bases yet.
A game company wants to keep their employees as much as they can, and this for several reasons.
If the game company decides to not add new feature but simply release a sequel that is not "bigger", a sequel with only new content (the content produced by artists, writers, level designers and such), what will the programmers do?
Cutting out features that were there in the first version will enrage the fanbase, so your options are to make the sequel the same, or to make it more.
The New Super Mario Bros series is the best example of this, in my opinion (the 3-D Mario games too, but too a lesser extent).
However, when making the second game in the sequel, the graphics engine is already made, and several sprites and mechanics are likely to be reused.