However like I said I want my host to be disconnected, How can I do this?
I read from a computer security expert that if you really want to keep your personal data safe, don't connect your computer to the internet, as everything can be hacked.
Something would have to be leaked from the host as well as leaked from the internet-connected-VM, highly unlikely since my VM is also following strict security measures.
So I've now set up my Host OS to be my lifes command center, completely disconnected from any internet access, and a VM (Windows 7 VirtualBox) for all my internet activities.
Also it's not really more secure as your host is definitely connected to the internet anyways.
After much research I came to the conclusion that VM is what I want.
Even if all software were to have zero security flaws, it would STILL only be a couple of clicks of human stupidity to accidentally chose to upload the wrong item to the internet, instead of uploading a clients final product, I might accidentally click on wrong folder to upload my secret source codes, my diary or my sex-tapes that I've sworn to keep secure.
The more I think about it, it is really insane that I use the same OS for internet-use as I do for things that are never ever intended for online sharing.
The other way around would be far easier, having your VM isolated from the internet.
Sure the VM communicates with the host through a shared folder (one only intended for files with public intention) as well as any potential software flaws, but I consider these risks to be severely more unlikely.
The only solution I have found is to run wifi from a external usb, but that solution is unacceptible unfortunately.
You can in theory tunnel your internet connection through your host OS to the VM and isolate your host completely, but that's an extreme effort.
If your internet activities are that delicate, you should simply dual boot your PC with another, safe OS like Tails and use a shared partition to exchange data.
Which I've since read is normal, you normally let your VM's piggyback on your host's connection.
Upon near completion of this goal however I've came the the shocking surprise, that when I finally disconnect my host from the network adapter, my VM also gets disconnected.