Here is the error I was getting that I misinterpreted:
3.open windows 7 and install dummy printer with universal 64 bit driver name as PCL5.
If anyone else sees that "Driver Update Needed" error- it might be easier to fix than you think.
(Search with name HP Universal Driver pcl5 32 bit on google to download)
I am using this technique athome with my old P4 PC with window XP having shared printer for all :-)
1.Install printer on window xp with universal 32 bit driver name as PCL5.
this time window 7 64 bit auto pic driver because it has already cache the drivers in last steps.
I have dealt with this before, but now I can't remember how I worked around the fact that Windows 7 isn't listed as an Environment in the "Additional Drivers" window.
What is the best method to install the Windows 7 (x86 and x64) drivers on the XP system so that network users can download them automatically as they add the printer?
The Windows 7 client realized it no longer had the correct driver for the printer so gave an error I had not seen before.
you do not need to install additional drivers on window xp.
That error was appearing because I had replaced a printer with a different model but had given it the same share name (intentionally- to keep things simple for users).
The Windows 7 driver was on the "server" (XP system) the whole time.
However, you are only likely to see this error if you replace a printer with a different model- but keep the exact same share name (\\SameServerName\SamePrinterName)
All I had to do was right-click on the printer in "Devices and Printers" and choose "Update driver" on each client machine (only 20).
Besides that, on a server you install a server operating system, such as windows server 2012.
We have a shared printer connected via USB to (and shared on the network from) an XP system being accessed by a combination of XP and Windows 7 workstations across the network.
The installer had drivers for XP -> Windows 8, so I was surprised to get this error and just assumed the worst.
I assumed the driver was not on the print server, or it would have downloaded it automatically- but this was not the case.
(Search with name HP Universal Driver pcl5 64 bit on google to download)
Windows XP is almost 12 years old and has been superseded by 3 new versions already.