http://techie-buzz.com/foss/fbi-fail-decrypt-hard-drive-truecrypt.html
Even a 15 year Computer Engineer/Cryptanalyst was impressed by it.
There are other points to consider when evaluating a program to protect confidential data.
The source code of TrueCrypt is available for review, which is a point in its favor.
If you you believe the availability of source code is not enough to ensure security, you will have to organize a code audit.
I think the point everyone is missing is if someone is considering using Truecrypt that person has to be 100% certain it's secure, if not their very life may in danger, it's not Flash Player or a Fart app for your iPhone, it's an application where if it fails may mean someone is killed over the information discovered.
I've used truecrypt for a few years now, and when you take a look at their encryption scheme, the other small issues that you pointed out won't do anything to its security.
Well, the TrueCrypt project may well be run in a fashion that is inhospitable/hostile to outsiders (anonymous devs, no Changelog), but I don't see how that relates to it being secure or not.
Look at it like this: If the devs really wanted to screw people by putting backdoors into TrueCrypt, it would make sense for them to be nice, so people are less suspicious.
If the integrity of Truecrypt is in doubt why use this application?
Answers so far have discussed how much trust can be put in TrueCrypt's encryption.
This bug in Debian's OpenSSL package went unnoticed for quite a while.
btw no question is a dumb question about Truecrypt or anything.
According to the documentation, TrueCrypt uses good encryption algorithms; however this is only part of the story, as the cryptographic algorithms are not the hardest part of a security-intensive programs.
Read these articles, the FBI has failed to decrypt 5 hard drives protected with truecrypt
And just because it does not have a repository does not mean that its not open source.
There certainly are people outside the TrueCrypt project who look at the source code, so a deliberate backdoor is probably hard to hide, but there might be hidden bugs.
I can head over to the download section and get all the source code, which in reality is what your looking for.
In other words, whether the software is trustworthy is quite independent from whether the devs are sociable people or not.