Then management would be via ssh (highly scriptable) and backups would be a matter of downloading a (4-8MB) copy of the flash every so often.
Similarly, as pjz pointed out, doing >1 SSID on the same radio might well increase the price dramatically.
Upon digging deeper into the product we already have, it appears that we can bridge traffic directly from the AP onto the LAN, with optional VLAN tagging per distinct SSID.
With Trapeze you don't have to deploy a controller on each site.
If it's the latter, you'll have to factor in power injectors for the locations without PoE switches.
Do you want APs that can use PoE and a regular power brick source or just PoE?
I think they might well be in different price brackets.
They Provide one visible WLAN and I think up to eight hidden SSIDs with different settings for encryption and authentication.
However: this local switching feature cannot be combined with the captive web-portal.
These are the brands you should be looking to if you want an entreprise-class solution (Gartner is always a good indication for the biggest players):
It will change the level of gear you need (to a much cheaper grade).
This gets an order of magnitude simpler if you do one SSID/AP instead of requiring two SSIDs from one AP.
The centralized management is really worth the money in my opinion, and Trapeze is really good value for money.
BTW: 3com, Nortel sell OEM-equipment from Trapeze as enterprise Wireless solution.
Since it does indeed perform as we need (in theory), I'll mention our current solution:  We're using Siemens' HiPath Wireless solution.
Given that caveat, you could likely do the whole thing with openWRT on the software side and any number of APs on the hardware side.
I have successfully deployed multiple HP Accesspoint with your requirement.
With the use of VLAN-tagging on the APs ("=local switching") not all wireless traffic needs to pass the central controller.
They struck the right price/performance balance when evaluated for a single office several years ago.
This would mean that your requirement of direct routing would mean no authentication at all on the public internet.
One central controller can manage remote APs (if you have VPN or leased line!