MultiAZ creates an "invisible" standby that is only used during failover / maintenance ie=AVAILABILITY.
Most applications I have seen setup two database connection pools/strings.
But for the Load issue, I think you should enable (which I believe you already did) the Multi-AZ replication in the RDS.
That's a tradeoff you need to do when you use RDS.
You also might have more immediate gains by running a separate database instance for each of the applications rather than splitting the load via reads, if your load profile allows it.
I am supposed to set the MySQL database connection to the read replica for non-logged in users and the source RDS instance for logged-in ones?
I don't think you can specify that where your traffic will go for read or write operations.
My websites have mostly visitors - non-logged in users.
Then use the route 53 domain name in your db connection urls.
You can use route 53 to distribute traffic to your read replicas.
My single RDS instance which power several websites just went bottleneck so I'm a little panicking and don't know where to start right now.
That all depends on what your application(s) are and how they go about connecting to the database and running their queries.
The link below has a video walkthrough of setting up the process, it only takes a few seconds to set up.
That will very much increase the efficiency and performance of your DB.
Also, if still your traffic is getting affected, you should consider using provisioned-IOPS.
That will create read replicas and will also be used for the failover and redundancy purposes.
If the direction I'm going is not correct, kindly point me to the correct path then
Most applications are not written like this until they need failover though so this is probably going to need some coding.
You might be able to use mysql-proxy to filter particular queries to a read only back end.
One for reading and one for writing and the application code directs it's queries to whichever pool suits the query.
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/requests-rds-read-replicas/
Amazon RDS FAQs stated that it is up my application to distribute traffic to the read replica.
Basically you create a domain name in your vpc, and configure route 53 to forward requests to that domain to the N replicas you place behind it.