If your ISP doesn't peer with Google, then you should not start using Google Mail in production until you can change ISPs.
You will want to keep that number to a minimum and for most companies, the lowest that you can get is to have only one network (your ISP's) between you and Google.
My opinion is that if you could skip the exchange crack and use google apps it could save a company a lot of money.
Many VC investor's won't allow third party systems, whether or not it really makes sense from a security standpoint.
I think the bigger reason is some people dont feel right hosting all of their email somewhere else than inside their own office.
Talk to any university about email break-ins using "approved" access.
It's the large number of untrained individuals using the gmail backdoors that make the system vulnerable.
Most "hacking" isn't technical, it's lazy administration, bad passwords and social engineering.
If you do this then it is important to ensure that your ISP has direct peering to Google's network.
If so, not having the email server on your LAN may be an issue, if most of your staff are in the some office.
This way, you ensure that the network path is under contract.
You've only heard of the break-ins that have been publicised.
http://articles.cnn.com/2010-01-23/opinion/schneier.google.hacking_1_chinese-hackers-access-system-google?_s=PM:OPINION
Is email useful to you when your internet connection is down?
Not a big risk, but gmail is a much bigger target than you will ever be.
I think one issue is lack of support, there is a post on Joels site that describes losing access to a Google Apps account because of a domain issue.
One contract is with your ISP and one is with Google.
Governments and law enforcement across the world (and some hackers) have access.
When you access sites on the Internet, your packets often end up being carried across several different peer networks.
Just be aware that many individuals have full access to gmail.
Gmail is arguably better than you protecting against a disgruntled employee hacking the system.