cPanel is the only well-known linux panel (Plesk is only for Windows servers), but there are open source panels out there as well.
This means I have root access; well, I thought I'd offer a bit of shared hosting.
Unlike cPanel, I'm not aware of any free alternatives that are able to interface with cPanel.
There may be some opensource ones, just not familiar with them myself.
The control panel would give clients limited access to his/her individual account settings, while still allowing you to completely control the server.
Also, without using PHP's safe_mode and possibly offering SSH access.
It's also expensive to increase your total RAM capacity.
WHMCS is an excellent client management/billing web app that has plugins for all the major control panels and payment gateways.
These take the underlying items like apache, php, mysql, ftp, etc and give a control panel for the users to login and control their individual settings.
You would then want to build a site that would sell your shared hosting.
It's very easy to oversell yourself and then not have enough server resources to go around.
If you try to just manually configure the various pieces you will get yourself into a lot of extra maintenance.
You'd probably be best looking at a hosting system.
Essentially, managing a web hosting business successfully is a full time job.
Well, the first thing to do is select a control panel for your shared hosting clients.
However, if you still want to pursue it, have fun.
Check out this wikipedia page: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_web_hosting_control_panels
The two I'm familiar with are commercially licensed.
It's also easy to encounter the abusive client that runs a process hogging all the ram on the server, causing it to crash.
Make yourself known on forums like Webhostingtalk, put yourself out on Webhostdir, and advertising on AdWords doesn't hurt.
However, like cPanel, WHMCS is commercially licensed.
However, cPanel is probably the best one to use as it's the most functional and comes with a ton of community support.
Can anyone point me to some web pages or something for how to setup shared hosting that is secure?