I tried multiple different things including hdiutil and various software programs.
I see that in this post some suggested that we should convert name.dmg to writable file.
I have seen infrequent issues when Firefox has been used to download an disk image.
In my case, the disk image is whole disk image, i.e.
Incredibly happy with the results so give it a shot if you are having difficulty.
What helped was to mount it from the command line, in two easy steps:
INSTEAD alternatively, I used Disk Utility, attached the Volume (yes I got the same message again, ''no mountable system files'' however, Disk Utility nevertheless attached the image, which I was able to do before anyways.
However, this time I was able to scan it with Disk Drill with exact file locations and folder hierarchy as I had.
Just remember: when you create new image of an attached volume and chose not compressed but read/write, you need to have a disk with exact amount of space that totals the total space allocated within that name.dmg file (not the amount of space the data takes).
I used the command from Terminal to convert but was not successful.
However, most of these programs were sorting files by type and did not preserve name or the original folder structure of my hard drive.
it contains a bare filesystem, no partition map whatsoever.
However It did not help me access the mounted Volume neither was I able to confirm the mounted Volume.
I have just had the same problem, with a disk image created by Disk Utility itself.
where diskN is the device identifier you determined before.
Nor was I able to mount the image using Disk Drill or even scan through.
and note the diskN part of your image, where N is a positive integer.
Try re-downloading the disk image, or downloading the disk image from within another browser....
I know it sounds too simple, but sometimes the mounting plumbing can get whacked out.
I did what simonair suggested and I received a message in Terminal that Volume mounted successfully.
Generally, if you are receiving "No mountable file system", that generally means that the disk image is corrupt or damaged....
Be aware that this helps if your problem is with a disk image similar to mine.
Neither Disk Utility nor hdiutil attach disk.dmg would work, both complaining about the dreaded "no mountable file systems" issue.
This time, I selected it and then clicked New image, and then selected image format read/write, not the compressed option.
Nonetheless, it should still work with partitioned disk images, see man diskutil.
I know this thread is old, but I'm posting this for those that may stumble across it.
Mine was huge, and luckily I had an external disk with enough space to do that and it took about 5 hours for about 400GB of disk allocation.
I tried EaseUS and it was the only one that was able to show me the files in the proper and original format.
Note that you are mounting the entire disk, whereas normally you would mount a slice, such as disk0s2.
I've had some weirdness with DMG's before and a reboot cleared it up.
This time this image was writable however, it still would not mount using Simonair's solution.