If your being observant, there is a problem with the last part of the hostname formula.
We have proposed altering this so that the customer can be 3 digits and nodes 2.
For workstations, use serial number or asset tag number.
There are also other considerations when naming a machine.
For example, the hostname on a windows machine cannot be more that 15 characters.
I've worked with a bunch of naming schemes that tried to embed too much information in the hostname, and they are almost always a nightmare.
Thus I can derive form this host name that machine is operated by my company, located in super centre, its a database server, a master, serving the needs of customer 01 and they have 10 hosts that are database masters.
BB This is a two letter short code to identify the site the machine is located on OR the service provider whom hosts the machine.
DD This is the customer identifier and may be a combination of letters or numbers.
Here we run the computer in a site call Super Center so we have assigned it the short code SC.
Also some switches (old cisco ones IIRC) used to have a problem with 12 or more characters in the hostname.
The customer number cannot be more that 99 or z9 and the nodes can be 999.
The main thing here, is find whats right for you and what you can live with on a daily basis.
While it in fact does nothing (nmap can determine the host os type) its just a good idea.
When someone insists on naming a PC or server after Egyptian Pharaohs or something, make a stink about it.
In this instance we are assigning DM for database master but we alos use code like VJ for virtual jboss, or wk for workstation.
So this means you have to have common information shared amongst your admins.
However, we also get the joy of being able to do neat tricks such as using the host name to determine what puppet should do with the hosts configuration (apply a common hosts file to all machines in my-sc for example)
This has to be also pragmatic in implementation if you have lots of machines, you are going to need to be able identify what it does and whom is owner really quickly from say DNS reverse lookup.
AA This is a two letter short code to identify the company whom owns the asset.
The big thing here that you should achieve is uniformity across the enterprise and agreement from all the admins as to what the conventions are.
Stick to server function, location and a series number and build from there.
These role designations are agreed by all in IT operations before assignment otherwise you end up with different meanings.
don't put windows, linux, sol5.2 or any identifiable information in the hostname that a casual observer would learn very quickly.
We use a few prefixes... "w" for PC/workstation, "n" for laptop/notebook, etc.
There are many different schools of thoughts on how to assign a host name.
CC A two letter short code identifying the role of the machine.
This could easily however be a two letter iso country code or even another companies short code.