The result was kinda akwards: as soon as you jumped off a cliff, you'd end up travelling up and down, as if you'd be riding a curious deltaplane.
A game like "From Dust" (Eric Chahi) is essentially physics simulation gamified, while "Another World" only need high-precision capture of real-life motion (so and requires little to no actual understanding of what happens).
I'd be very surprised if you ever use Maxwell or Einstein theories, though.
The good approach is much simpler and simply require that the speed is increased at every frame by a constant (gravity acceleration) as stated in Newton Laws.
It is probably not required to know physics in details when you're doing a game, but it definitely helps, especially if there are some 'virtual reality' features in your game.
Knowing physics makes you find the right solution faster.
Knowing that friction exists helps using it as a game mechanic, even if you don't exactly use their academic version.
It is very likely that inertia and the other bodies motion related fields will be quite helpful to produce something that is pleasant to the eye, even if you're just moving items on a chessboard.
However, physics knowledge isn't necessary for a lot of simple games.
In fact, I believe we could very much use game development as a way to teach physics.
A lot of things you may want to do can be simulated simply enough that players won't care much, like friction, or sliding, or gravity.
The first time I wanted to have a character jumping in a game, I started using sin(x).
A decent grasp of physics will likely help in many situations though.
There anything that you need to know in order to develop games.
It depend what's your better knowdledge, that you should make some kind of game of another.
Or depends of your traits, you should make a part of another in a game studio.
As stephelton said in the comments to your question, vector math is extremely important for pretty much any 2D or 3D game.
There are physics-like concepts you should understand a bit about, like collision, but you won't need calculus or physics classes for that as long as you keep it simple.
Having something that behaves close to our real world makes the rules of your game easier to learn for your player, feel more natural, and brings the player to the fun/challenging part more rapidly.