If you were in an apartment, these would be serious complaint-drawers from your neighbors.
Do you really want to have a slab of metal that's half the size of an adult as your PC?
If its been on for 2-5 years or more in an enterprise 24/7 you can expect the PSU, motherboard and hard drives to be near the end of their life.
Certainly not bad for the time (considering 3.2GHz processors), but is it REALLY going to provide you that much horsepower for gaming in today's titles compared to a budget system nowadays?
You can buy cheap servers (8GB ram, 2x3.2GHz processor, etc) for around $150-200.
Noise issues would certainly be a problem too, which would ruin your gaming and/or datacenter-theater experience.
Does it need 2 power supplies or else beep constantly that a power supply has failed?
A similar computer would cost hundreds, if not thousands of dollars.
There is a good chance there will be no graphics capabilities.
Some operating system licenses allow multiple logical processors (dual, quad core etc.)
Keep in mind, these $200 servers are probably Dell 1950/2950s or HP Gen5s.
I once had a server tower (SuperMicro) and have used a rackmount server as a standalone machine.
Will you be able to find the correct RAID driver easily for a desktop OS?
This is a much better use of your money, not to mention the energy required for lugging your new purchase up the stairs.
You could one several rooms away, even though the (admittedly not real solid) doors were closed.
Why would I not want to just buy a server and use that as a tower?
Or are they Itanium (Useless for desktop computing).
You can get a new server with dual Ivy Bridge Xeons with 16 cores at nearly 3GHz, over 100GB of RAM, and easily over a TB of storage, to give a typical example.
Space, depending on the server it could be hard to fit it somewhere.
Check out Tom's Hardware quarterly System Builder Marathon, where you can build your own ~$600 gaming PC using brand-new parts.
The reason these things are so cheap is because they're obsolete compared to modern server offerings.