The WiFi icon doesn't add the orange alert right away to know it is even happening and the remedy still takes several seconds to come back up.
I had the Centrino 2230N and I bought the Centrino 6230 to try to just bypass the problem but to my absolute frustration the 6230 is no better!
It is not a perfect solution as I am not getting the gigabit ethernet speed, but it is better than the way it was before.
Conclusion: there's nothing you can do but force your IT Department to fix it.
If you want to learn how to set up a VPN you can learn how to here: http://www.pcworld.com/article/2030763/how-and-why-to-set-up-a-vpn-today.html
It looks like your IT Department set IP address lease time to some certain time interval.
Since changing this to "100 Mbps Full Duplex" a month or two ago I haven't seen a dropout again.
Note that Intel is seeking tech-fluent people to help diagnose and solve this problem.
In the meantime, I have a .bat file which helps a little, but it's still damn disruptive.
We tried many tweaks on the DHCP server- increasing lease period, reserving IPs to MACs etc... We could not track down why DHCP was acting wierd.
My adapter was set to auto negotiate the speed by default (it is burried away in Ethernet Properties / Configure / Advanced tab and Speed & Duplex property).
{Unrelated} I also recommend setting up a VPN for extra security if you haven't already.
It's like, let's say old fashioned VHS rental: you borrow it for a week and then give it back or borrow for one more week and so on.
I personally had the same issue with some machines losing connectivity intermittently, but solved when we assigned statics to the machines.
See that message https://communities.intel.com/message/233145#233145
I just thought that I'd follow up on this as I did get a resolution for my network constantly dropping.
It forces router that is responsible for DHCP (addressing IPs and so on) to revoke your lease (take IP address from you) and give you another, or the same one, if change is not neccessary.
I think your best bet may just be to forget the network connection, if you do this and reconnect the problem should be delayed for about 24 - 48 hours.
I'm having this problem like CRAZY on Windows 8.1 and found this Intel page that is related.