You obviously won't be able to support lots of users, or anything that needs high throughput because of the 100Mbps limitation of the network.
I have around 8 Pi(e)s now, each running 1 or 2 basic servers as you mention.
For commercial use - given the amount of downtime I've had at home, not a chance!
Apart from the other reasons mentioned here in the answers, an important one hasn't been mentioned: security.
If it's WAN-facing, you shouldn't run it without regular software updates, SELinux, regular kernel updates, etc.
I see a great deal of value in these small computers going forward and we have an endless supply of things we'd like to use them for.
If you plan this carefully (maybe use Lighttpd and SQLite because of their lower footprint) it might work.
Most of the distros that can run on RPi2 have been proof of concepts, not distros focused on being 24/7 available servers.
There is no reason they can't be more reliable than the typical file server: You have total redundancy in one small package.
I also have another Pi2 in a professional aluminium case running Arch as a desktop machine works surprisingly well (see how I did it - PDF I'm particularly proud of the mail server which supports around 12 users and handles several hundred emails daily.
The "B" is rather under-powered but will still work, although a model 2 would be better.
Since the Raspberry Pi 2 just boots whatever is located at /boot/initrd7.img, it's not trivial to have multiple kernel versions present.
There are even companies offering RaspberryPi colocation for a few bucks per month.
GRUB or another boot loader would enable you to have multiple kernel versions present, giving you the option of booting a different kernel if an update went bad.
I swapped out a Pi for an Odroid XU4 recently as the web server was a bit sluggish, and this has more memory and a gigabit ethernet port.
Overall, the Pi represents an ideal way to try software out, safe in the knowledge that if something breaks you won't lose everything.
For home use - sure, I run an IMAP server on an RPi2+Raspbian, it's adequate for my own use.
It would obviously depend on the load caused by the mentioned services.
You can make a RPi rock solid if that's what you set out to do.
With a careful choice of software you should be able to run IRC, XMPP, web (Nginx), mail (Postfix+Dovecot), Tor proxy, and I'm also running a Gopher server.
The Roundcube service is a little tricky, because you would need a webserver+php+sql.