Check for things like an excessive number of styles stored in the document.
Should reduce more than any other XML-based format that excel provides.
There was one file that was much larger than the others.
I've even deleted the data, row by row, or column by column, until there is no data left, and it still gives me the same problem.
Using the clues given to me by allquixotic, I opened the xlsx files in 7-Zip, and compared the file sizes.
-- if this kind of thing annoys you, stop using Microsoft formats / programs or suggest to your customer to do so.
If you google around for "Microsoft Access database bloat" you'll see that Microsoft has a long history of letting their proprietary formats leak tons of useless data to disk that never gets cleaned up.
I had a look at all the conditional formatting rules, in the whole worksheet, and there were loads.
In general the .xlsx format results in a dramatic reduction in filesize.
The file xl\drawings\drawing1.xml was a file that contained multiple references to formats, over and over again.
I spent a few hours trying to figure out a pattern, but wasn't able to.
If you think a formula might be slow, you can step through it using the formula auditing tool.
If the spreadsheet is, or has previously been shared, it may have old share data stored in it.
Repairing the file simply erased the shape, but didn't change the formatting of the file at all.
Are you using the binary .xls format or the new XML-based .xlsx format?
When sorting the spreadsheets by size, I saw that while most of the spreadsheets ranged from 10-250k, there were a handful of spreadsheets with filesizes of 2-3 MB and more.
Open up the .xlsx in that and just take a look at all the elements within the file and see if anything is obviously extraneous.
Then, after a fit of aggravation, I just deleted the damn file, and tried to reopen in Excel (2010- didn't test it in Excel 2007).
I thought that they had somehow caught some VBA code, but there are no macros, no VBA code.
I guess this is one of the most frequent reasons for this kind of problem.
One simple fix is to copy and paste just the relevant data from that spreadsheet to a new one, then save it in .xlsx format, and see how small it is.
I went through and cleared them all, and then created the ones I actually needed, and now it is really fast.
In my case the problem was related to "Format as table".
I've reviewed plenty of Google searches, but I've gotten nowhere.
A client contacted me, complaining of Excel spreadsheets that were taking far too long to open.
Oddly, the filesizes weren't huge, they aren't holding much data, just a bit of formatting, maybe two or three pages of printed invoices, but they amount of data was almost identical to the smaller sized (and normal opening) spreadsheets.
This may require knowledge of XML and of the specific OpenXML schemas, but it's a surefire way to find out what is causing the bloat.
When opening the file, the amount of RAM needed would spike from 3 MB to 400 MB, and it would completely occupy a single core (tested on a dual-core in the office, and my quad-core laptop), while starting.
As I'd mentioned before, I hadn't tested this solution for any products other than Excel 2010, so I don't know if the shape file was critical to Excel 2k7 or any OpenOffice products.
For a dramatic reduction in size you might try the format .xlsb.
Ctrl+End shows 39 rows and about 12 columns (ends at M).
Try to "remove personal information" (a feature of Excel/Word/etc.)
It complained that the file was damaged, and asked if I'd like to attempt a repair.
Also check for complicated or circular formulas and references to external sheets (especially those on network drives).
Open one of those spread sheets and take a look at the format.
Last thing: if you save it as an .xlsx and it's still big, try downloading the OpenXML SDK Productivity tool: http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5124
Also got rid of all the 'Connections' I didn't need, and save as .xlsb after it all worked well, and it is even faster now :o)
I had to resave the file as the same file, which was a bit odd, but it worked!
to clean up certain kinds of cruft that might be sitting in the file.
It's like a really nasty memory leak that eats your disk instead of your RAM.
Try to copy the entire column to another excel spreadsheet and paste values only (with no formatting whatsoever).
But, if you have a similar problem, hopefully this could be helpful.
If it's very small then you have your answer -- Excel is doing poor accounting of its internal file format's data structures.
They use Excel for creating invoices, so they have hundreds of Excel spreadsheets with light formatting and very simple calculations.