What you are doing though is providing one website with your Identity.
Are we going to see OpenID provider blacklists and OpenID provider review sites in the future?
Some rogue person sets up their own OpenId provider service and knows the email of one of your previously authorized users.
My problem with OpenID in general is that it's new and there aren't any standards (that I've heard about anywhere anyway) that define what makes a "good" OpenID provider.
To those who think OpenId consumers should let any OpenId provider be an authenticator, that's just crazy talk.
Probably I don't understand something about OpenID completely.
The only way I can see a "rogue" OpenID server being a problem isn't a web application security problem so much.
OpenID is a mechanism whereby you can store your credentials with a trusted provider, and they will then verify you to others.
Let's say you have a list of authorized users based on an email passed from openid providers.
OpenID is NOT an intrinsically safe protocol - it doesn't have the power to force a rogue provider to provide security, nor does it 'vet' each provider to ensure they are secure.
If a malicious person sets up an OpenID server and people start to use it, the owner of the malicious service could impersonate anybody using their server.
If you are trying to secure with openId, you must have a white list of providers you trust, otherwise you're pretty much wide open to anybody who knows how to setup a provider service.
Granted, it's a new technology that is generally used for applications with minimal "trust" requirements.
They tell people you are who you are, but they also have access to it.
The question comes down to do you trust the owners of your OpenID server?
For example, a spammer could start an OpenID provider with a backdoor to let himself authenticate as any other user that was tricked into registering on his site.
For credit card data, there's PCI-DSS standards for managing credit card info -- but no equivalent for identity.
That rogue person could then 'authenticate' himself as your accepted user.
Since anybody can start an OpenID provider, and since there is no central authority that approves OpenID providers, why won't fake OpenID providers become a problem?
If you choose an untrustworthy provider, they can see and use everything you might use your credentials for.
But on sites like ServerFault, I think that you need a level of trust that's greater than that of a blog, but less than that of bank or online broker.
Is the provider's reputation the only thing that prevents this?