Some files depend on the file system to just remember what kind of files they are.
I suppose that explains why its difficult to define what a file is.
The second perspective is the perspective of a file itself, which is really just some way to store some data, after all.
I searched around on YouTube for a good video, but found pretty much nothing.
A "directory" is from the same etmological root as direction, and it means "to guide".
Nothing wrong with citing all the "dictionary" definitions found on the Internet.
Programs are executable files and even running program and system states have associated files (found in /run).
That is the file's name is accessed through the OS and if you want to know the bits and bytes of data "in" the file you need an Application or program to read/write the file.
Network connections are files that can be read and written.
Those of us who have been around a while know what a file is, but I was at a bit of a loss to explain it to a novice.
So, a "file" means different things in different contexts, and the only overriding idea is that a file is a way to group data together.
There are hundreds of rooms holding thousands of file cabinets holding millions of files in hanging folders.
A slightly different but insightful take on this :-
This is because the files don't have to be contiguous inside the computer.
I used to use a tool called 'strings' that would show any displayable sequences of characters in an otherwise 'binary' file.
Many kinds of files have 'signatures' in the first few bytes.
They have some vague idea that there are files for images (JPEG, GIF, PSD, etc.
We have gotten far away from this level of reality in our everyday use of computers, so it is good to show that there is really no mystery, it is all just a heap of ideas people have had over time, piled up in layers.
If you've been asked this question before, what's your answer?
And the metaphor for the folder is as a place to store those files.
As for the files themselves, there are two perspectives to think about this.
), files for music (MP3, WAV), files for doing office stuff (docx, pptx, etc.
This is incredibly convenient, and using the same metaphor as "directory", we call the list of folders and subfolders and subfolders that bring us to a particular file as a "path".
Maybe also a simple image format such as PBM or BMP.
First there's the idea that folders can contain folders, which can contain more folders still.
Was in a conference the other day and someone was showing intercept security... A .exe file started with MZ.
In a physical sense it is just a list of connected disk or tape or memory sectors containing codes for data values.
But translating that idea to the very alien mind of a computer involves some tweaks.
One issue is that although 'file' makes some sense, 'folder' does not, because we don't ever nest manila folders!
Imagine that it's 1925, and you're working at a giant company like General Electric as a secretary.
Start at the bottom with characters and follow the clues.
We also call these folders "directories", another metaphor.
That's where I kind of stumbled around for a few minutes because I didn't have a good answer prepared, nor a really good demonstration.
I'd add that a file tends to be the lowest level of abstraction of a container or boundary around data that the Operating System manages.
So far, that's just like a file in our big office.
Personnel files about employees, files of record for payments, files of company policies, board meetings, tax documents, you make it.
Again, the metaphor is there, but it breaks apart a bit in translation:
Looking back, I think I might have shown him what a text file looks like using a hex editor.
So the metaphor of a file, then, is a document with some information about something.
The file system just has to keep track of everything so that the files can be assembled properly when they are needed.
Every file is designed to be read by programs or by the computer itself, and is highly organized to make this possible.
But our files can store so many different kinds of data!
It doesn't actually matter if the first half is stored over here in the hard drive and the second half is stored somewhere else, since the file system will retrieve it for us as if it were one document anyway.
Today's students believe (and rightfully so) that a file is an icon-thingy in a folder or on the Desktop.
All of these require very different internal organizations, so the contents of files are extremely variable.
There are files, meaning pieces of paper, for all kinds of things.
The first is from the file system, which is concerned with being able to store and retrieve these files.
The OS "promises" to return the data to any Application in the same order in which the creating Application specified but physically the OS may scatter the data to the wind - as long as the OS can return the data properly to some Application.
Those are the initials of the man who created the first DOS executable file format.
A file of data is a datafile but a directory (folder) is also a file.
I recently had a student in my Intro to CS class ask me: what is a file?
The other term, 'directory', has fallen in to disuse, and really is not any better.
Attack it in many ways, showing the aspects of 'files' that are meaningful to you.
So, folders can be thought of as places where files sit, or can be thought of as a guide to where files are.
I would approach this pragmatically, beginning with the metaphor that kicked it off.
"Hey, I'm a picture, and this is my encoding and my color depth and my size and and and and...".
This is why we have to show that analogies are limited and misleading.
As far as the file system is concerned, a file is a size and a series of locations as to where the various parts of the file are stored.