Now I can build the empty table and then pop in each row of content via animation--and my table isn't broken into a bunch of tiny (un-editable) image fragments like it is in the Microsoft solution.
I would start with the final slide and work my way backward.
Create your finished table on a slide and then copy that slide and paste it before your finished table slide.
I then copied the source table again, and repeated this until I had my entire table constructed, with each row it's on single, transparent table sitting on top of the formatted shell table.
My solution was a bit more simple (and in my view, more elegant).
My approach was to cut all the text from each column and paste it into a separate textbox as a list, placing the list over the top of the table.
I've got a slide in PowerPoint 2007 containing a table with several rows.
This is not super fancy but close enough for what I needed without a lot of hustle.
I'd like to build this slide one row at a time (so that the audience doesn't see each row until I'm ready to talk about it).
In the other copy, I removed the header row, removed all cell formatting, and set transparency to 100%.
I haven't been able to figure out how to do this... whenever I try to create any kind of animation, the animation applies to the whole table.
The other tricky part was to rearrange the "order of appearance" in the Animation Pane so the elements of each "row" (across multiple columns) appeared simultaneously.
Delete a row from the table, and then copy that slide and paste it before the current one, etc.
I then made a copy of this transparent table, deleted rows 2 through n where n is the total number of rows of data), moved that row into the proper position, and then deleted row 1 from the source table.
As you go forward it looks somewhat animated (no flashy effects though) as you add one row at a time
I copied my table, and in the copy deleted all the content except the column headers.
Then used the animation pane to make the rectangles disappear one by one, showing the text behind it.
Then I blocked off each row with a rectangle of that row's color.
(It not only breaks the table, but breaks the text in each cell into multiple disconnected textboxes, making it impossible to do any subsequent text editing on the content.)
I also had to manually resize the row-height in the table, because it collapsed once I had removed all the text.)
I agree with the sentiment that the official Microsoft strategy is horrible.
I used an approach where I created a table without grid lines but where the rows are alternating colors.
(I had to fiddle with the spacing of the list elements, to match the table cells they were supposed to be in.