When this happens, I, as administrator, get Access Denied no matter what I do to the directory- can't open it, delete it, move it (explorer or command line), take ownership, etc.
The drive in question happens to be a SSD, though I doubt that is relevant.
I've never had the problem with the prod script, though it gets run less often.
I have another script that deploys the production code which has the same first line except without the "-test".
You can use the SysInternals handle.exe utility to list open handles on the machine and locate the process with the open handle.
Rebooting isn't a huge deal, but taking the entire server down for 60 seconds because one of my test directories is messed up is pretty annoying.
What is Windows doing on reboot that is finally making the directory go away?
I believe the reason is the directory actually doesn't exist anymore, but something about it is hanging around making it still show up in Explorer and the Command Line.
If you can get that process to close the handle (or just terminate the process) you'll see the delete complete.
I have a recurring annoying issue on one of my Windows 2008 R2 Web edition servers.
You have an open handle to an item at or below that directory and until the handle is closed the delete can't complete.
Everything is fine after that: I rerun my script, the first line responds with the directory cannot be found warning, and then it continues and deploys as normal.
Sometimes when that line is run, it works fine, other times the directory somehow gets corrupted.
The same script previously ran without any problems.
Both destination directories are IIS 7.5 application directories.
I'd like to know is there anything I can do to the corrupted directory when it happens so that I don't have to reboot?
If I reboot the server, when I log back in the corrupted directory is gone.
I have a script that I run when I want to redeploy website code.
Of course a related question is why is this happening in the first place?
This has happened the last two times I ran this script.