I have seen some REALLY badly installed drops that drop ~10% of the packets yet still work.
If you aren't having problems its 'close enough' to working.
The downside is that when some weird network issue occurs, you'll never be sure if it's your wiring or something farther up the stack.
Another good test would be to push some actual traffic through the wire (iperf on both ends of the wire) and see if any of them run dramatically slower than the rest.
My company has a very limited budget so we don't have any proper network testing equipment and I'm using a bargain bin $5 manual punch down tool, not one of the fancy expensive ones that tries to eliminate human error.
I think thats what I paid with a 66 block and a 120 block punchdown (are those the right numbers).
You can pickup really cheap 100base switches that are fully managed, and use something like Cacti to log all packet errors per port over time.
Is this a decent enough testing process, or is there another (and more accurate) way to test each jack (without network tools, remember).
If you are fine with learning about problems as they occur, you're probably fine with the testing process you described.
I would implore you to even buy it yourself if you have to.
I don't have a reason to suspect that since all the connections I've tested so far have worked perfectly.
If I mess it up just a little bit will nothing work at all or will there be intermittent problems that are near impossible to trace?
Every network guy's first investment should be a decent punchdown tool; you can get a workable unit from your local mega-hardware store, most of them have a low voltage/electronics section these days.
A 'cheap' solution is to swap out your network switches with (used?)
If you have a little more money -- consider asking a local wiring company what they would charge to audit your connections.
I plug my laptop into the wall jack and see if it can get an IP from the DHCP server and access the router's DD-WRT management interface.
I'm reasonably confident that I got all the wires in the right order after some initial A/B confusion, but I'm not entirely confident that all the physical connections are fine.
What I don't know here is the degree to which connections could fail.
They have the $1000 fluke that can do the work, and should charge ~$120/h for two people to run the tests for ~05 minutes per drop.
If you could get your hands on a good Fluke meter for a day, it would go a long way to identifying any of the more esoteric wiring problems.
My testing process so far has been to plug each patched port into the switch then take my personal laptop around to the wall jack I just patched.
If it can properly send the management interface to me (which is a rather detailed webpage), I've been crossing that off as a working jack.
I just had to run a total of 12 cat5 cables into a patch panel.
You are correct to suspect that your $5 network tester is inadequate to the task.
It's fine for verifying that your wire map is correct and that the you have connectivity, but it won't detect any of the other problems, like the many varieties of crosstalk.
Stick with your laptop test, copy a 100mb file off another machine, and call it "good enough" for now.
There is also the, "if it isn't broken don't mess with it" school of thought.
If you have a technical center in town (highschool votec) they might have a highend fluke that could do the work -- call them and see if its something you could use as a teaching exercise for students and borrow gratis.
After that, as has been said, load-test, beg or borrow some testing tools and definitely look for a managed switch that fits your budget.