The next gave an error on "line 1" stating that the subquery returned multiple values.
Original table containing raw data (foreign key on [Station] linking to an unrelated table:
The destination table for this operation is as follows and has no key constraints currently, but will have a Foreign Key on [Station] and a composite Primary Key on Station, Year, Month, and Day once all data has been inserted.
Even if I exclude the last 4 lines in that final GROUP BY, I receive the error that the first column (Station) is invalid since it's not contained in either an aggregate function or the GROUP BY clause.
These are my failed attempts at inserting the data into [station_daily].
Would I be better off creating temp tables for for each portion (overall averages, day averages, night averages, and bit fields for trace amounts) and then joining those together in the actual table insert?
Or is there some neat trick I am completely missing altogether?
Each day has multiple data readings, some in 5 minute increments all the way up to hour long increments.
This next one wanted all the columns listed in GROUP BY since they weren't a part of an aggregate function.
In this last one I attempted, following the advice in the post I linked above, I attempted to use all aggregate functions in the joins, yet I still receive "Column 'bAVG.WindDirection' is invalid in the select list because it is not contained in either an aggregate function or the GROUP BY clause."
I found one post that I felt was close to my scenario (Confusing Query: Mixing Aggregates and Non-Aggregates) and both solutions gave various errors.
I suppose my question is: is there a way to exclude columns from a GROUP BY without using an aggregate function on them?
I may be incorrect, but wouldn't including those have skewed the overall averages I'm in search of for each day?
The following script gave the error "Column 'weather_data.WindDirection' is invalid in the select list because it is not contained in either an aggregate function or the GROUP BY clause."
Thank you in advance for any fingers pointed in the right direction!
I have a table which contains raw data for various weather conditions.
I am looking to create a table that holds various averages as well as a bit field for certain conditions.