My second thing was about VICI interface of strongSwan.
This is a common practice for this task to use RADIUS and strongSwan has plugin for it.
iOS supports "VPN On Demand" only with certificated-based authentication.
With some IKEv1 clients there are some issues in case of reauthentication, though (see issue #937 and related).
But we got new requirement - setup several VPN servers with one users database and make accounting of the VPN usage.
If eap-radius plugin is enabled with option accounting = yes, strongSwan will send RADIUS message to start accounting, even if eap-radius is not used in ipsec.conf file.
If I want to reject access for some CN I can just reject RADIUS message from stronSwan and ipsec connection will be interrupted.
But strongSwan with IKEv1/Xauth uses username/password for authenticating user on the backend RADIUS server.
Also I would like to use strongSwan curl plugin for access to the certificate revocation list.
EAP-TLS makes it possible to delegate the certificate authentication for IKEv2 clients to the AAA server, but this is unrelated to RADIUS Accounting.
RADIUS Accounting in the eap-radius plugin does not require XAuth authentication.
I supposed to get notifications about each new IPSec connection, but looks like VICI works different way.
To provide "VPN On Demand" for iOS users of my office VPN server we are using next IPSec solution:
Thanks to ecdsa, I've found several solutions of my problem.
Most of my iOS clients use iOS 8 which supports IKEv2.
It actually works with any kind of authentication, via RADIUS or not, as long as the client requests a virtual IP address (for IKEv2 even this requirement can be disabled).
But I've found lack of documentation about this plugin.
Or I am digging in the wrong direction with EAP-TLS?
I can obtain certificate CN from message and it is enoght for me to make proper accounting.
Can I use EAP-TLS to delegate RSA authentication check to RADIUS server?
Do accounting and access check in the updown script instead of using RADIUS.
With this function the VPN connection is made whenever the device tries to connect to certain domains or to the internet at all.