Just buy cheap, but quality ram and save a lot of money.
If either of us miss one of the clicks of the metronome we find ourselves out of sync.
Imagine we are both on a phone connected directly to each other.
We express the information in a predetermined way which is to scream over the line when the metronome clicks to represent a 1 in memory and silence to represent a zero.
The reason there is such a variation in speeds of memory modules is because over the last several years, materials science has developed lower power memory that is capable of maintaining a greater number of reliable state interrogation points per second effectively making the memory faster.
If you look at the benchmarks, playing double for your ram to get great timings gives you less than a 1-5% performance increase.
Most average users do not get into the nitty gritty details like this, but if you are brave and have designs to overclock a computer or crank up the bus speed then you probably care much more about this sort of thing.
Now that the example is laid out I can use this to demonstrate a few things about the way ram functions.
Synchronization errors are effectively expressed when the two of us are not talking and listening at the right moments.
The operations are usually read or write in the case of memory.
The clock speed is effectively the number of times per second the computer can conduct an operation.
The clock speed is needed to allow the motherboard and the memory to correctly exchange state information with one another.
Second lets abstract this as if it were a phone call.
The protocol in this example is we take turns every time the metronome clicks.
There is a very simple way to demonstrate the timing of memory in very practical terms everyone will understand.
The heat is a function of the increase in the number of operations taking place and the errors are usually directly related to the particular performance characteristics of the semiconductor material in the memory.
The closer it is to the mid point between clock pulses, the more likely that the read/write will be unsuccessful.
We have a metronome that is clicking once every five seconds and every time it clicks we take turns speaking.
Here is a good article on RAM timing and a good memory performance guide.
The first thing to consider is the actual clock speed.
You can often times get greater speed out of electronics but the side effect is more heat and more errors.
If either side is early or later talking or listening then there is a high likelihood of an error determining the correct state of the bit in memory.
The clock speed of the memory is more or less equal to the speed at which it is capable of reading/writing data to RAM.
The speed rating of memory is more or less just performance metric the memory is designed to achieve with a acceptable amount of read/write errors.
The time it takes the electrical signal in the wire to go from a complete 0 to a complete 1 is called transient time (Also referred to as low and high states)  When reading/writing memory, the closer the read/write is to the clock sync pulse, the more likely it is the read/write will  be successful.
If you start listening at just a milisecond after I stopped yelling, then you would eroneously interpret that to be a 0 state.
The worse the two sides get out of sync, the more pronounced the number of state determination errors will occur.
The clock speed and synchronization is needed so all of the electronic components know when to listen for the electrical signal that represents a 1 or a 0.
The Megahertz and Gigahertz of clock speeds and bus speeds can seem a bit opaque if you do not have an electronics background.