When Windows is installed all current features and packages are copied to the installation.
I created two new local profiles, disjointed from the domain but still, the Start Menu does not work under any profile.
I downloaded and ran the Win10 Start Menu troubleshooter from MS (startmenu.diagcab) and it returned this:
As a temporary workaround, I have installed Classic Shell for the user, but this might not be acceptable for him since the taskbar is still broken (right-click doesn't work in the taskbar).
OS version is "Windows 10 Pro 1890 OS build 17763.55 (dev.
You can also check your system for integrity,  in the admin powershell type: sfc /scannow.
I upgraded a user from Windows 7 Pro to Windows 10 (in place upgrade) and his Start Menu does not work.
If you are still stuck try this simplest of the solution.
If those powershell commands are failing, it's pointing towards the installation having not copied over all the files.
They're then enabled based on configuration, including what level of Windows you're running (Home vs Pro).
I faced same problem (Start menu and Search, Notifications, etc.
it brings back the language bar and for me it allowed me to type in windows search, start menu and WINDOWS 10 apps again
"Required applications are not installed correctly.
One would think that these PowerShell commands would resolve the issue, but for whatever reason, they do not:
Maybe these missing packages are just the beginning of your nightmare.
See more details in the article I mentioned above.
Here is short instruction from this article that helped me:
Since they weren't installed on upgrade, it's plausible that the installation corrupted.
"Microsoft.Windows.ShellExperienceHost" and "Microsoft.Windows.Cortana" applications need to be installed correctly."
Alternatively you could see if a restore point was made, there usually is, and restore Windows 7 and re-attempt the upgrade.
I think it is due to missing Language bar or some think like that
Ideally the best solution would be to wipe and install Windows 10 fresh.
I found another SU post on this exact issue, but none of the suggested solutions have worked.