I have 2 web servers with replicated content, I have a virtual IP setup in the system which points to the 2 IP addresses of the web servers.
https://www.zevenet.com/knowledge-base/howtos/manage-certificates-with-zen-load-balancer/ (ignoring the bit about purchasing a cert from SofIntel as we use JISC for our Certs)
https://www.zevenet.com/knowledge-base/howtos/create-certificates-pem-format/
Basically I created a certificate in the load balancer, generated the CSR, purchased a certificate from JISC by uploading the CSR generated from the load balancer.
I want to combat this by adding a certificate to the load balancer.
I tried uploading the ZIP to the load balancer and it pops up an error showing that the certificate needs to be created in a PEM format.
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY----- Private Key (without passphrase) -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY----- -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- Certificate (CN=www.mydomain.com) -----END CERTIFICATE----- -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- Intermediate (Intermediate CA, if exists) -----END CERTIFICATE----- -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- Root (ROOT CA, who signs the Certificate) -----END CERTIFICATE-----
I then downloaded the ZIP file from JISC which contains the crt for the domain, as well as the root certificates required also in the ZIP.
The load balancer works for HTTP and HTTPS traffic correctly but shows an cert error when trying to get to the servers via HTTPS.
I am not really sure what this is asking me to do....does this mean the original CSR that I generated is irrelevant now?
I am wondering if anyone has any experience with Zevenet Load Balancers.
But is there any way can go about getting the Private key from the load balancer so that I can just create the PEM file manually.
Sorry if this seems like a really stupid question, pretty new to cert stuff, not sure why it wont just let me upload the zip file.
The instructions on the above link say that the PEM file needs to be the following:
Essentially I already have the domain certificate, the intermediate and the root all from JISC now.