And the actual person-who-gets-miffed-and-snoops-traffic-at-a-provider scenario are the ones that companies don't report unless they have to.
The thing is that you can't know how prevalent the attacks are.
Tapping into a connection across the internet requires either ISP or Government level access - and it's very rare that anyone with that level of resources is going after your data.
Once someone gets into your network, then you've got serious problems, but outside of that, you're probably fine.
In other words, there is no hard data on how prevalent MITM and interception attacks are on users, but there's evidence that would suggest it's higher than would be comfortable, and most users don't care enough to get that information.
The real question is "how much of my limited resourcing should I devote to MITM attacks instead of elsewhere?"
: an SSL certificate and and use HTTPS is often enough) so it is cheaper to fix than spend the time evaluating how much of a risk it could be.
If you want to know how many spots someone could "potentially" see your traffic do a traceroute and you'll see as much as will respond at each routing point.
Happens all the time, just that it doesn't get noticed or reported so much.
And that those devices are each actually routers and not something masquerading as routers.
And how often does information get leaked inside the ISP level?
This depends a lot of the nature of the communications involved, and has no single answer.
Most "attacks" like this now are very likely with trojan malware intercepting keystrokes and passwords from files.
When the malware works properly, most users wouldn't know when it happens.
So a person that dialed into us came into our network, and if you weren't talking to our web server or mail server, traffic went to a higher tier provider, and we have no idea who did what with your data in their network, or how trustworthy their admins were.
How much do you know about your ISP's configuration?
That's assuming cloaked devices aren't in between some of those.
MitM attacks are pretty much exclusively encountered in the local network.
With the amount of malware floating out there, it's probably far more prevalent than you'd think, and even then the key is to have discovered the attack.
If you're in the US, thanks to the Patriot Act, libraries and ISP's can be compelled to record your data travels and emails and browsing history without telling you that they're collecting information on you.
In my experience it's not a big risk relative to other security risks, but it's usually a cheap one to minimize (e.g.
Most companies don't because it's embarrassing (or too much work).
When I worked for a small ISP, we were reselling another higher tier of access.
There aren't any regulations saying companies have to disclose attacks that are discovered unless your credit information is compromised.
Of course these ignore the scenarios where companies are compelled to keep records of your traffic and disclose them to government agencies without telling you.