I have seen some post on superuser regarding softare such as input director or synergy but thought I would see if anyone has hardware solution first.
The only Logitech device that can do this is the new K760 keyboard for bluetooth.
If you added the ability to have the input devices (mouse, keyboard...) pair to multiple transceivers, you would require some sort of additional buttons on the device to switch between them.
In any event is there some hardware method of resolving this or some "hack" to be able to easily switch from one unifying receiver to the next quickly?
It is quite a pain to actually unpair and repair the mouse+keyboard from one PC to the other.
You'd also need to have the input device store the state (caps lock, num lock...) it was in for each transceiver.
I have a mouse and keyboard with the Logitech Unifying receiver.
The problem is that the transceiver may have the ability to recognize something like 5 devices, but the input devices can only recognize and pair to one transceiver.
I have two of those receivers, one in my desktop and one in my laptop.
There appear to be similar questions on Logitech's site so you can search there as well.
This can be achieved easily using a $6 USB manual switcher...That is sharing a single keyboard/Mouse etc via a single Unifying receiver, you need a power USB hub as well
Sit, if you see a signal with the correct encryption and ID, accept input, otherwise ignore.
(I think logitech did this on purpose so you would have to buy a second mouse+keyboard, who knows) .
http://www.logitech.com/en-us/product/m720-triathlon
I suspect the answer is that when you pair, the transceiver and the device exchange several bytes of random data and form a key to both allows the devices to recognize each other and to encrypt their wireless transmission.
That's because the transceiver only has to sit there and accept a signal it recognizes, otherwise it is passive.
Please google "USB DDM KVM switch" and you should can find right KVM switch for your setup.
I had been successfully using a KVM switch to pair 3 unifying devices into one unifying receiver.
There are one type of KVM switch technology (USB DDM - Dynamic Device Mapping) can pair multi unifying receivers and share unifying keyboard or mouse to many systems.