You will find much better performance if you change the encryption to arcfour or blowfish.
So far I have tried Firefox (latest and greatest) and Chrome (also latest and greatest), and while Chrome runs faster than Firefox over X11 from my CentOS server to my Windows 7 workstation, it's still pretty sluggish.
Runs entirely in the terminal, though on the server side of things it uses Firefox to actually load the page before converting it to something renderable in a terminal.
You should also enable compression on that same screen and save it as the default for the connection you are loading.
I had the same issue, and found that this pretty much eliminated all of the lag.
Since only the HTTP traffic, rather than screen redraws, etc are forwarded it's just as fast as it would be if you were on the remote machine- minus the inefficiency of the encryption.
I was looking for a solution for this problem, and found a good one: Browsh works great for my purposes, though I don't need to get through any captchas that the low-fidelity graphics would make impossible to solve.
What other GUI browsers are available for Linux that would [likely] run faster than Chrome?
The main reason X11forwarding is showing lag is because of the cipher that you are using to connect with, and not the actual browser itself.
Even if you use a browser that is light-weight on CPU and RAM on the server, in this case the limiting factor will undeniably [1] be the network.
I've not tried Opera 11, but have had many issues with it under Windows and Mac OS X directly, so am waiting for a new version before going that route.
The downside is that these ciphers are not as secure as AES which is the typical default.
It's not quite the solution you asked about but while trying many lightweight browsers- xxxterm, etc and even resorting to lynx once in a while never worked out well.
[1]: Unless you have a very fast connection (~100Mbps in my experience); then any browser will probably do without being more annoying than using the browser locally.
I've found that running a VPN (server) on the remote machine and then connecting to that VPN remotely using your local machine and locally running browser allows  you to have access to the remote IP space while still running the browser on your local machine.
What you want to avoid is mostly unnecessary screen rendering.
If you are connecting from one linux machine to the other, the connect string looks like this:
If you are on a windows machine using putty, you can change the encryption cipher selection policy under Connection/SSH/ .
The VPN solution however, is more than serviceable even while tethering from your phone.