Yup, that 1.3 GB file needs to be copied across multiple servers; cue unbounded happiness from the mail server admins.
Or is it just the main email platforms dragging their feet?
Jammed the queue on one transport server while processing the message, lit up back pressure, stopping message submission.
This was a problem in the 1990s, when there was no useful alternative (FTP?
What's the technical limitation preventing us, in the glorious year 2011, from emailing each other 1GB files?
And I just realized that if the file is base64 encoded it will be even larger (approx 33% larger I guess).
Using it for sending or receiving large amounts of binary data across today's Internet is a bolted-on hack, completely different from the original use case, and it performs rather miserably in this role.
The user's outlook then dutifully re-submitted the message to the other transport server that was functioning; back pressure, no message submission.
Having been in a situation with Exchange 2007 where management subscribed to the "no limit on email size" philosophy:
It will usually be a copy on your client in "Sent items", and if using IMAP, a copy on the server might show up as well (on your account).
Of course, you can consider it a backup, but there are better options for that as well.
Then the receiving end will keep a copy (the server), as well at the local client on the receiving end.
Note also that not everyone is on a 100 Mbit link to the Internet - e.g.
An internal user sent a message to their hotmail address with an .iso of a music CD.
The problem is this: e-mail (SMTP/POP3/IMAP/what-have-you) is an ancient, simple protocol originally intended for sending plaintext messages in a trusted network.
With both transport servers choking on the message, all outbound email halted for about 90 seconds.
Not to mention the slowness that might occur on the server because the users mailboxes grows indefinitely.
Puh-leeze); but in the glorious year 2011, with various ways of seamlessly up/downloading data to/from the cloud (e.g.
TL;DR: while it would be technically possible to do such things as e-mailing a 1GB file, it would also be technically possible to pound in a nail using a screwdriver - it's just not a good way to do it, as there are tools that are more suitable for such tasks.
mobile and smartphone; not every mail client is capable of downloading only the headers (e.g.
POP3 is still in much use), and not every user is willing to download the 20 inevitable "look at this funneh 1 GB video" e-mails per week that will appear (people will send as large files as the system will let them; and yes, there is something like FUP with most ISPs).
Dropbox, Ubuntu One, Amazon S3, to name the most known), the excuse of "there's no other useful way to do this" is not true any more.
I feel like email attachment sizes are stuck in 1992...
If I can set my inbox to grab headers only, and then full attachments if I want them, what is the problem?
When you attach a file to the e-mail, it gets base64-encoded, which increases its size by 1/3.
Thus, your 1 GB file becomes another 300 MB larger; also, there is no built-in compression to the download protocol, thus no way to speed up the transfer (and in some cases (SMTP for sending,POP3 for receiving), even no way to resume a broken transfer - connection broke at 1.2 GB?
Since an email is stored in multiple instances along the way, sending a 1 GB file would use up several times that all the way.
If using IMAP, then it will not be deleted on the server (once again).