He loved the exclusivity, I loved the fact that there was a little bit less trouble he could get in to.
There's no magic argument if somebody doesn't get it or your boss or organization doesn't recognize the possible risks.
If these were in place, it would be a no-go, or he'd be going on record filing the special requests to get the privs.
The only time I was even a tiny bit successful on this was a boss who was willing to use run as with alternate credentials if he wanted to install something.
It was actually very effective, and kept his machine from getting totally screwed up in the two years that I was at the company.
I just block the really bad sites and try to prevent stuff from my end, but the dumb users always seem to find a way.
You can take the stance and say no and but that may or may not work and it may lead to bad feelings.
I'd ask him what it is he thinks he can't do with the privleges he has.
Bottom line: if a boss isn't concerned with the appearance of preferred treatment or risk associated with users running as admins AND you (or your dept) don't have the acknowledged authority to deny the request, you might as well give it to him.
Glad I don't have to cover for the desktop guy very much.
I have been in the situation before and it is a no-win situation.
This was a relatively savvy CEO who was able to understand the whole run as thing, and I'm sure he had stuff on there I wouldn't have approved, but at least it stopped him from passively screwing stuff up.
If this question is coming up, I would guess that the organization doesn't have explicit policies in place to deal with this kind of request.
Other than that, give him the admin rights- he's signing the overtime check when he breaks it.
I work for a company that doesn't give a hoot about giving local admin rights to users.
\computername\c$ to his PC, read all his documents, copy them, paste them into a different location and then present him with an example of what a hacker will do to his system and do with all his personal info if he get's infected because he wanted to browse to odd sites or download free games from somewhere.
The best you can do is try to formulate some polite "this is against best technical practice" statement, back his stuff, up and let him go to town.
I maintained the ability to ssh in and run top just to keep an eye on things.
I explained that even the sysadmins logged onto systems with normal accounts most of the time and then created him his very own admin account that he was only to use when he wanted to do something special.
We have virus/spyware/malware issues ALL THE TIME.
On top of it all, our desktop guy is a noob, but very cocky, as if he invented the internet.
I totally sidestepped the issue and bought the CEO a very expensive very high end (at the time) Mac workstation with a huge studio display.