As always with our company, the IT department will get first stab at the new OS.
There were a ton of aesthetic changes from XP to Vista, and there are quite a few changes between Vista and Windows 7 (making the adjustment from XP to Windows 7 quite an ordeal).
I am not sure how Windows 7 will be introduced .. it will most likely be OEM and so will depend on when we start buying again!
Note that if you want to retain profiles from xp you will need to go through some pain converting them to Vista or Windows 7 because of the new file structure.
We are hoping to skip Vista, although a couple of us are testing it.
technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc748927(WS.10).aspx
Recently we have purchased Vista with the XP downgrade and installed XP.
With MDT, you are basically creating a custom image of your target OS.
Most Microsoft programs convert over well but it's hit and miss on many other programs.
Probably the biggest challenge facing deployment is training.
Maybe when Office15 will be out and strictly require IE9 available only for Vista/W7, we'll think about upgrading.
We purchase an OEM license for the OS with each PC, and don't generally upgrade it unless there is an obvious reason.
It's just because XP/XPx64 is very stable and still supported.
In any case, if you decide to upgrade a PC from XP to W7, I suggest a clean install rather than doing an in-place upgrade.
If you plan on retaining profiles you will need to read the docs.
Windows 7 is a nice os which I would probably use at home but not at work - there's nothing revolutional.
It's not a cost related questions - as we are msdn subscribers, we don't care.
I just went from XP to Vista and experienced this.
We're planning on using my past 6 month's experience, in conjunction with the various Win7 Features webpages and instructional videos to help ease the transition.
The current MDT 2008 version supports Vista migrations nicely including migrating user state with the User State Migration Tool (USMT) 3.0.
I'm already running Windows 7 (and have been since the beta, through a few of the subsequent builds, and now the RC).
So I might be slightly off in a few places, but that's basically the gist of it.
Part of the process includes creating a WinPE image that the target system boots into in order run the USMT and other prerequisites before formatting the drive and shoving down your new OS image.
Luckily our department workstations are reaching their set EOL, so when we upgrade the physical machines, we'll up grade the OS as well.
Once the OS has been replaced, USMT takes care of putting the user settings back.
We will likely use the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit 2010 (aka MDT) when it comes out of beta.
Microsoft has a good white paper on this conversion and the tools needed to pull it off.