If you don't want to waste space storing previous versions for a particular data set, partitions are your best ally.
For example, if you have an unexpected disk or filesystem problem and have to reboot to run chkdsk on a 2 TB combined system+data partition, you might not have the server back online until tomorrow.
In the end, the only solution was to wipe the partition and reload the data back on.
We use multiple partitions on our servers with the C: drive dedicated to the OS.
Obviously, it would have been much more painful without partitions.
My preferred course of action is to completely separate OS and Data by having a separate RAID 1 array just for the operating system.
I like to give at least 25GB to the OS partition, but the point remains the same.
Avoiding partitions would have meant avoiding ugly fixes.
Shadow Copy (aka Previous Versions) is toggled on/off on a per-partition basis.
I don't have an exact answer to your question, but I do have several anecdotes that you might find useful in designing your drive/partition setup.
Our other partitions we use mainly for storage of data such as databases, user files/folders, shared files/folders, etc.
Restoring from backup becomes easier when program/data files are separated from the OS installation.
You can also backup or image the partition in less time.
For example, I could upgrade all the harddrives used for data storage without having to change the OS installation at all.
As a stop-gap measure, I used a junction point to temporarily store data on the OS partition until the new server arrived.
Being in the Administrators group is not sufficient.
When running a Windows IIS server, we seperated the OS drive from where you put the hosted website files to prevent directory traversals.
On a newer server, I discovered that you may have trouble administering any drive except the C: drive, unless you are the local Administrator or Domain Administrator.
If that partition is only 20 GB, you could be back up and running in less than half an hour.
If your system partition is small, it takes less time to run diagnostics and repairs on that partition, resulting in less downtime.
The same server as above, at another point in it's life, managed to end up with a completely full data partition while there were dozens of GB available on the OS partition.
That said, the 10 GB limit you mentioned seems alarmingly small, since you'll quickly consume that space with service packs and hotfixes.
This is due to an oddity with UAC, which I have disabled for now.
I had a server with two partitions, one for OS and one for data.
At some point over the years, something went wrong with the data partition, and a single file nested about 6 levels deep became impossible to delete or rename.