Dedicated lines are a bit harder because that could mean anything.
I would say that generally a leased line is a line you are paying someone else for use.
We don't use those much any more as few people want 128Kb/sec circuits.
A dedicated line is a leased line where your "line" may be virtualized along the way.
Leased means just that... you're leasing the line which could be using a shared services such as a MPLS VPN (or Frame Relay in the old days).
The terms do get thrown about quite a bit and the definition is a bit of a murky issue as they can be used in several ways.
You may have a PRI that comes into the building and provides service to multiple organizations.
You pay for all it, at so many dollars per airmile.
For instance, in an office building, you may not have a dedicated line.
You can't really have dedicated without leasing (i.e., a contract), unless you own the cable plant, but you could use something other than serial like Ethernet.
Serial lines are lower-speed leased lines, typically less than the standard 1.544Mb/2Mb/s lines.
Something like 10 or 20 to 1 instead of 100 or 200 to 1.
A leased line typically refers to a point-to-point style link.
A dedicated line would be a line that is dedicated to you/your company.
In all honesty these terms do not have a "standard" meaning.
Note that the line by not always be a wire -- we may transform your "circuit" into a digital link along the way.
Typically, you'd buy for example, a dedicated 10Mb and we'd create a local link to you, perhaps metro ethernet, turn that ethernet into a long-haul shared ethernet circuit (2-10Gb), and then back into ethernet at your end.
A point-to-point can be dedicated...an Internet connection can be advertised as being dedicated, but that's kind of a farse.Typically a dedicated line just means less oversubscription than a shared or non-dedicated line.
So they can be used in a lot of different contexts.
Dedicated Internet Access (DIA) is a common term used by ISPs and can be provided over leased or serial lines.
Often this is cheaper because the telecommunications company doesn't need as many lines going into the building and has fewer to maintain.
At least from the point of view of a telecommunications carrier, when we say "leased line", we mean a physical, point-to-point connection billed per air mile.
A serial line is a type of interface using running HDLC or PPP.
However, you could also pay someone to provide and maintain that line.
If you order a leased line from San Francisco to New York, we will obtain a leased circuit from the local telco to a long-distance inter-exchange carrier, and then another local loop as we call it, from the IXC to the New York telco destination.
For instance, you can string your own copper and establish your own T1/T3 service between buildings.
You have a dedicated virtual pipe at a given capacity.
I wouldn't put this in the same category as dedicated or leased lines.
Often leased lines have a SLA associated with them.