Here is the link for you http://infrarecorder.org/ It is free and open source with GPL3 licensed.
Another thing to see is what speed Nero is running your DVD burner at, as I have sometimes found that burning at a very high speed can result in minor data corruption.
However my personal favorite is InfraRecorder that I use on Windows 7.
I burned the file as a data file and tried to play it.
I got no errors or anything through the burn process nor when the file failed to load up in the dvd player.
The only software I have purchased for burning is Clone CD, for creating ISOs.
I have DVD burner and a dvd player that plays divx files.
I burned it as a datafile like I alway have done and it ran just fine.
So I am not sure if I should try an alternative(not sure what is good) or what I should do to proceed to figure out the problem.
There is an info screen that gives you the details regarding the video and audio codecs of a loaded project.
But not anymore, since everything I need to do is built into the Operating System.
I then too the exact same file, dvd-rw and went to my other computer that is still running XP and that had nero 6 on it.
There are a few programs out there to tell you which codecs a video has been encoded with.
Windows 7 comes with a built in file burner as well as ISO burner.
It could be a bad encode, or the encoders used a codec other than DivX (even though it ends in the .avi container extension.)
If you have time to kill, try burning it at 4x or 8x and see if it works.
Try taking a DivX you KNOW works (already burned) and reburning it with your new software.
So I don't know if this is a nero problem or a hardware problem or what.
I had a .avi file that is in XVID format so it should play in my dvd player.
My suggestion would be to try and burn a different DivX and see if you experience the same problem.
I know there are more advanced features I am missing out on, but I never used them anyways.
I am now on windows 7 and I am using Nero BurnLite 10 and it does not work.
(Alternatively, there are plenty of free applications available to create ISOs as well.)