Either password the dropbox folder on your hard drive with Lame Secure or unsync your computer to Dropbox & work thru the browser to upload files.
After some digging around and a little bit of trial and error, I found out that the best way to lock your Dropbox folder is to install Folder Lock, put your Dropbox shared folder in it and remove the shortcut from your Favorites list in Windows Explorer (for Windows users only).
 OR down load Hide folders http://www.altomac.com/hide_folders/ & hide the Dropbox folder if using a mac.
http://www.howtogeek.com/105633/how-to-create-a-password-protected-folder-without-any-extra-software/
You can use Boxcrypter in your work computer and even in your home pc/laptop.
It does not actually encrypt your files or protect them in any way at all, it just hides them.
I realize this is a late addition to this post, but I figure that anyone searching for an answer will now be able to use this if they want.
In order to access this folder, you need to provide a password.
Best I think is to use browser to get to from your Dropbox id security is an issue.
Boxcrypter is free and allow you to encrypt one specific folder in dropbox.
I was going to suggest using Dropbox Portable, but according to the forums it's been discontinued.
You can simply use the web version on the computers that don't belong to you.
Otherwise you'd need a third-party app to password protect the Dropbox folder.
Once it's locked, nobody will be able to access it, not even by clicking on the Administrator (users/yourname) shortcut.
It seems to me like you don't really need any high level security here, you just don't want people going through your personal files, so this would work great.
If a hacker get access to your dropbox (even online), all the content inside Boxcrypter is unreadable.
Everything you have with high sensitivity needs to be moved to this specific secure folder.
Dropbox itself doesn't offer the functionality you're looking for.
I use this on a public computer I use at school, and it works like a charm.
Boxcrypter not only allows you to hide the content of dropbox to your boss, but to Dropbox support as well.
With the folder hidden, even if someone clicks on the dropbox app, it won't open.
Other people can access your data, but it will take more work that the average guy will be willing to put into it.