The reason is that any old spammer may be able to send mail to a mail server, but many will not be able to create a PTR record for their IP, because many will be using relays or a personal ISP.
I have not yet experienced any DNS failures due to a missing PTR record, but am wondering:
That way only "primary" hostname(s) will be resolved for reverse lookups, instead of perhaps websites/services/etc that may also reside on the same host (which generally I use CNAMEs for).
Benefit 1: Reverse DNS lookups (which rely on the PTR record of a given IP address) can be performed in troubleshooting scenarios, though these scenarios are rare.
a special process to register their hostname with the ISP/provider/etc.
This is of course just one of many ways to manage your DNS infrastructure.
Troubleshooting errors with only IPs could get tedious.
Benefit 2: Mail exchange servers are in a never-ending battle with spammers.
You could then change your "MYHOSTNAME" to whatever the PTR record is pointing to, instead of ending up with 2 A-records serving similar purposes.
Example) A forward lookup cannot be found for "MYHOSTNAME", but you know the IP  of the host it should be pointing to - you might then do a "dig" or nslookup to see what the PTR record says a valid hostname is.
Being able to look up IP's and get a name back seems to have value to me.
For these reasons, I've generally seen it considered Best Practice to have a PTR record for each A-Record, but not for CNAMEs.
Is there any added value in having a valid PTR record on a nameserver IP-address?
This means their IP addresses would not have an associated PTR record, unless they went through some "extra work" - e.g.
- thus blocking emails from IPs with no PTR record reduces the spam the mail server sends out.
The PTR record is a must have for all Mail Servers that directly relay mails to the Internet failing which many DNS Blacklist will outright reject mails originating from the I.P Address and it could get your I.P Addresses blacklisted globally and many of the DNS Blacklists are globally replicated depending on the Blacklist.
Having a PTR record proves your reliability to external mail servers, & in many cases will prevent your outgoing mail from being blocked or rejected.