Then document this and the procedures used to do your job.
Anyone who implements ITIL dogmatically is a fool (and they told me that on an "official" ITIL course).
When a standard is upgraded, we know what our upgrade path is, and we know it can be applied to a very wide swath of our deployed systems.
In my experience ITIL has also been a framework that allows support staff and IT staff to hold their ground against unreasonable demands from the business and implement real solutions to technology problems as opposed to "quick fixes" and "WE WANT IT NOW CUZ IT'S COOL!"
I really should add at this point that we've implemented incident vs. problem management for our helpdesk and it has been very helpful.
We DO still have a proess for allowing business units and various app devs to request "special" equipment or services, but since we do charge-backs this is VERY "expensive" budget-wise for those requesting it.
What really is going to make you unpopular is when you do these kinds of standardization is that often you inadvertently describe that a lot of management layers are only there because of themselves and that cutting them out will likely improve communication and performance.
Splitting down the documentation to the lowest entity (like a single task) is tremendous amount of work but as soon as you do that you probably discover that large amount of tasks done now manually are either unnecessary, can be automated and/or can be delegated.
That company failed and was purchased by a company that lives and breathes ITIL in the support model.
I have worked in an organization that used "business-serving changes" as a an excuse to destroy, bypass, or override nearly every standard IT tried to implement (hardware, software, authentication systems, storage systems, etc.).
Taking a in-depth harsh look at your organization is never popular or easy to do but it will result in a better understanding of the company and help you be more profitable by just stop doing things that are unnecessary and delegating tasks down to a lower pay level.
This allows us to move along that path much quicker.
I made the transition to the new company and not only is life better for IT staff, but in the long run the BUSINESS is happier because they get a stable environment, and they actually get better support and new technology FASTER because there are defined standards for support which feed into defined standards of technology.
Knowing standards like ITIL makes the above task easier because you have a framework which results in the right questions to ask to cover the task completely, but the most important thing is documentation about:
It's obviously nuts for a one IT person shop to try and implement ITIL, when most of the conversations between the various "areas" of change management, release management, etc are actually going to take place inside one person's brain but having said that, at the other end of the scale, if you just got offered a fortune to be internal helpdesk manager for Microsoft or HP or Apple or whoever, with users and helpdesk callcentres all over the place, how could you possibly do the job at all without ITIL or something similar as a guideline?
You can/are supposed to adapt and adopt parts of it to your needs.
What you actually did is the same as what all these ITIL/ISO stuff is about too.
Yup, but while your at it why don't you take a good look at your organizations procedures and support requirements, talk with the managers and users what kind of support level do they expect if they have to make a trade off between money.