Queries were taking thousands of milliseconds to run.
That's systems that have migrated and been handed over to production on the day (well mostly on the night) planned.
A tech was practicing the Snapshot process on a LUN that was almost full.
Make sure you have a good idea of how long things will take.
I've only ever had one system that we had to reverse out of after an apparently successful migration - a SQL box that needed more CPU horsepower than the platform could ever deliver.
VMware Converter is good and free (for the non enterprise version), Platespin is very good (but costly).
We had ours configured to end up in the LUN on the SAN with the VM files themselves.
To answer the question as asked - pitfalls related to P2V migrations.
The cleaner and newer the systems the better but even with migrating old (NT4 systems) my success rate after more than a hundred migrations in a range of environments has been around 90%.
In Windows AD environments always make sure you have a local admin account on the box being migrated.
You can make them work but it's never a great idea and Microsoft will almost certainly not help you in any way if you have problems later.
When we convinced them to move it back to a dedicated box, there was a 10,000% increase in throughput and speed.
We had huuuge problems when our DBA allowed our primary MSSQL server to become virtualised.
Related to the above - if you have anything other than a completely flat network then build some test VM's and make 100% sure that your VM networks perfectly replicate the physical ones you are migrating from.
P2V copy times will vary depending on available network bandwidth (obviously) but also can be dramatically affected by the number of files in each volume being migrated.
If you are planning to change system names or ip-addresses (or both) during the migration then first consider don't doing that and if you absolutely have no choice then make sure you have people on hand who understand how those changes might affect the systems in question.
It was a bit of luck that lead us to the LUN being full as the cause.
This is particularly a problem with Platespin migrating NT4* systems but will affect any P2V software copying at the file level (which generally applies if you opt to resize volumes).
Measure resources consumption on existing environnement to determine if your virtualization environnement can take this load.
Later he rebooted the VM for some reason, and the log files caused the VM to not start.
Before going live with your virtualization solution:
These should have been red flagged from a CPU requirements POV in advance but don't be tempted to move one if you aren't certain that the target VM will have ample CPU headroom.
My worst migration ever was an RSA ACE server used for authenticating a DMZ located VPN where the client refused to listen to my objections and insisted on changing both name and ip-address during the migration.
Copy rates of 70-80Megabyte a second are possible with GigE networks, relatively fast source and a good target setup but 20-30Megabyte/sec is more typical and for the aforementioned NT systems with 100Meg networks and lots of files I've seen copy rates drop down into the 50kilobyte/sec range.
Virtualization impact is around 5% of performance of overhead.
Try not to run production database servers in a Virtual Environment.
First off - P2V migrations work very well for the most part.