Manufactureres do not know what drives will be placed in their case so often will include the ability to plug into a second port for more power.
That also means some drives will require one or two USB connections depending on the voltage of the PC.
It would be helpful to know what enclosure you are using with the drive.
Either way, you should not see  a performance change by hooking up the second USB cable.
As stated above (but not quite true), one plug is for (extra) power, the other for data.
No one USB end will be fine for powering the drive and transfering data too.
However, your particular drive uses less than 2 watts, which is well within the specification for the amount of power a single USB peripheral can draw from the USB port.
The eSATA connection should provide you with better performance and I would hope that the enclosure electronics would default to eSATA if both USB and eSATA connections are present.
In particular, it almost certainly will supply 5 Volt (3 Watt).
In particular they use as much as twice as much as their "idle" power when spinning up the disk (from power off or sleeping) and more power doing long seeks than doing short ones.
Do the connectors have different colors or symbols that differentiate their purpose?
However, there are plenty of drives which require more power.
So it is completely possible to have a drive that mostly works but has sporadic failures when it is underpowered.
Hard drives do not use a consistent amount of power.
I've run into situations where external drives weren't getting enough power and they would make repetitive noises like they were trying to get up to speed but couldn't.
My best guess on the two USB connectors is that one is meant for data and the other is used to supply additional power if your computer is not providing enough.
USB2 specifies minimum amounts of available power (600 mA, 4.75V, so 2.85 Watt).
If not and you want to use your second port for other things you might consider getting a (powered) USB hub.
I agree with your statement to a certain extent that the hard drive would either work or it wouldn't.