And create skill-based classes that are difficult to utilize optimally and/or punishes harder for mistakes of skill.
Either way the good player would be uncheatingly challenged, and the worse player has a real chance.
That kind of competition is a tried and true approach.
Maybe one player has to do precise 720s, while the other gets credit for drifting around the corners as much as possible.
If the competition is between me and another person, and no matter how hard I try, I always win precisely 50% of the time, and no matter how much I sandbag, I still win 50% of the time, I'm going to get bored.
Offer "upgrades" to your vehicles which make them more suitable for the minigames, but which might negatively or positively affect race times.
That makes the final race-time less comparable, because both players are doing slightly different things through the entire race.
If you are trying to adjust it so that everybody wins 50% of the time, it requires a different mindset.
Never give both players the same test on any given race.
It also makes good players less likely to improve.
If they steamroll their opponents without even trying, then they don't get any sort of feedback.
Cort Ammon's answer touched on the idea of playing against your own best, but I'd like to take that a bit further.
Its success will depend on how important the theme of "racing game" is to your project.
A similar game style still related to racing would be having some players go the opposite way around the track, and deliberately attempt to collide with the oncoming cars, and score points appropriately.
Create some sort of automatic ranking system, where good players play against other good players.
Additionally, you will have to prevent new players from using very difficult cars, usually by a car unlocking system.
Then, over time, try to encourage the players to engage in activities that pit themselves less against eachother and more against themselves and the environment.
This should not disadvantage a player that spasms as much, as a spasm would make the oncoming car's trajectory more difficult for the opposing player to predict and avoid/hit.
Over multiple games, both players can then try to improve their score against each other.
Why would you try getting better if all it does is give the opponent bonuses or makes you worse?
There is one major disadvantage: it is hard to create such a system, and much harder to create it right.
In such a case, you will need to entice them to play the minigames.
If you can convince them to start thinking that way, then you can start playing pareto-optimality games.
The lead car's score is how long it evaded being caught or overtaken; the chase car's score is the opposite.
Pick minigames which don't affect the final race as much, and offer those instead.
Maybe there's an upgraded differential that's better for drifting, but happens to decrease acceleration or something equally crazy.
I need to still keep the goal of "winning," to keep the emotional attachment to the game, but I need to decouple that from the deeper game.
If they aren't doing any of the minigames, and just racing pedal-to-the-metal, then you aren't going to be able to optimize like this without a player noticing and refusing to play.
One example would be, instead of a race game, a chase game.
If I happen to be improving alongside my disabled friend playing the same game, so much the better!
This will also have a side effect helpful to your situation: a "skilled" player may only be vary skilled in one or a few classes.
If you do the thing better than the other person, you win.
There is no need to set a baseline, as the players can do that for themselves.
If the question is only about bonus or malus, bonus is the way to go, as outlined by FFN in a comment:
Get a sense of how much they are "digging" the minigames.
Your game is symmetrically balanced, which leads to the better player winning.
Once you figure out that they're having fun with the minigames, you can try to decouple them from "winning the race" again by offering more interesting games of skill.
Perhaps for those of lower skill, you might give them a goal for just a 360.
The lead car has a headstart but a slower car, and would be played by whoever chooses to (assuming it's a group of friendly people, the preference would be for it to be chosen by the strongest player).
If you make certain classes have an advantage against certain other classes, insomuch as to cause a 50-50 winning-losing chance for that combination, a you get closer to your goal.
My approach would be to to start with a simple racing game, where the first to the finish line wins.
The game needs to be rephrased as more of a battle with myself.
The chase car is faster, but due to being driven by the lesser-skilled player it will not catch up in a determinate time period, but due to the advantage the chase car has it should eventually catch up.
Maybe add some mini-goals like trying to do a perfect 720 roll off every jump in the game, which is only given to people when that would be a good test of skill.
A solution is to create classes of different cars.
It can be hard for the user to get used to the behavior of a car if the car's speed and acceleration change every week, so that's something to avoid.
Have classes that don't take a lot of skill, and doesn't really punish the player.
You might as well just make a casino game if only the chances decide who wins.
The skilled player either chooses their car or picks a different one he's not as skilled in.
Offer slight bonuses which make your race-time shorter if you do the minigames properly (like speed boosts or whatnot) to get them interested in the games.
In most 1v1 games like you describe, the goal is to reach a finish line first or otherwise do something the best.
Ideally that bonus isn't just a change of the car's stats, but something more controllable, like a faster cooldown on user activatable special abilities.
And I am sure there are other disadvantages and advantages I missed or didn't think of, that will probably be pointed out in the comments of this awnser, but with dedication, you can overcome or mitigate these problems.
If they're really down with them, you can 100% balance the final winner algorithmically without decreasing player happiness, because they aren't focused on the winner of the race.
This will require lots of thinking and creativity, and will never be perfect.