That is an absolute max of 1GBps per connection, but will most likely max out around 300Mb/s depending on storage hardware.
Our core switch has never registered more than 450,000 packets per second.
You said 10%, or 7 employees, would be moving image files across network shares.
You're not going to see the beneifts for remote web/email access and large local transfers.
What's not clear is how you intend connecting 70 users to a 48 port switch.
Even if every single packet was 1,500 bytes, that's still only around 5.3 Gbps.
The above is all calculated with the assumption that every employee is doing all they can to use up all your switch's capacity at the same time for an extended period.
In order to use that up with email and websites, your Internet connection would have to be 10Gbps, and each employee would have to be using 158 Mbps.
That's not even remotely feasible through web browsing and email, by about 3 orders of magnitude.
Note that unless you are planning to add multiple switches - and need to think about spanning trees for multiple paths, high end switches have little performance benefits over cheapo basic ones (yes there maybe differences in build-quality/longevity - but IME, they don't justify the price differential).
It's pretty much irrelevant to base effective bandwidth of real world usage on the averaged bandwidth of users across a whole day with this number of users.
Even an un-switched lan is going to have latency times several hundred times smaller than the latency of the internet connection - and the bandwidth discrepancy will be almost as large.
If they're doing it across the Internet, it's going to cap out at the lower of either your uplink bandwidth or the remote server's bandwidth.
The other place where expensive switches make good sense is where you need really low latency switching.
Let's assume absolute worst-case scenario for estimation here:
EDIT: For reference, We have over 100 employees and over 100 servers.
Even estimating that they use all 1Gbps for those 7 employees, that leaves 63 employees to share 10Gbps.
So using using ports from an expensive switch has very little value.