Is there a way for me to ignore the file permissions when doing this?
If you want write access, check out Paragon NTFS or Tuxera NTFS.
I'm using a SATA to a USB cable thingy so that I just plug it in as an External Hard Drive.
If you enable both once, then the permissions of every "child object" (file or folder) will be replaced with "Inherit from parent".
It keeps telling me i have to change the owner permissions of the folder and all it's contents.
There does not appear to be a way for any version of Windows to ignore NTFS permissions (yet).
They're both paid software, but OEM's (Seagate, WD, Toshiba) often provide a free version which will only work on their branded drives of you visit the downloads section of the OEM.
On Linux, you can use the NTFS-3G driver to mount an NTFS volume.
These OSes use 3rd party drivers to read/write to NTFS, and they often ignore all but the most simple read/write/execute file permissions even if there is no option to ignore everything.
My system hard drive on an XP computer kind of failed (random corrupt sectors).
If i tell it to change all the files and folder permissions it takes a really long time because it has to recurse through all the folder contents to change the permissions.
If you're on a Mac, it can mount an NTFS drive as read-only which should be enough to pull your data off.
The system i'm trying to use when recovering the files is Windows 7.
I was able to access all my files with no file permission issues on a few NTFS drives which would give me all kinds of access/permission errors when it was mounted in Windows.
In Windows Explorer when i try to copy the data, I keep getting prompted with Security warnings and error messages.
However, since they will now be on the Sata drive it will not take as long than it would to do it via USB.
The first change may take a long time, but further ones should be really fast because only one object's (drive root) permissions will need to be changed - files inside will have "inherit" set and need no change.
So i got a new harddrive and am trying to recover the files.
The last data i'm trying to recover is stuff in the Documents and Settings folder.
Your best bet would be to use another OS (Linux or Mac) to mount the drive and read data off it this way.
I have successfully used this method twice to recover the data from dying disks where writing anything to them may have caused further damage.
You do need administrative access on the machine you're using, but not the disk from which you want to recover data.
The best you can get is to change all permissions for the drive and all its contents.
This enables your system to believe it has full access to the drives on the disk, without resetting any security descriptors, or any other potentially damaging write operations.
You can use Robocopy in backup mode to copy files that you do not have permission for, but I suspect you will still have to take ownership of the new files.