Run the autdodiscover checks from a user session and be sure you don't have any issues there.
Depending on where you are it could just be latency issue.
And you can enable Outlook verbose logging as well.
If all mailboxes are hosted in Office 365 be sure your DNS points directly to Office 365 and the Active Directory SCP are null, or also point to Office 365.
If something like this in place - try to split out that Office 365 connection to a local internet point and see if that helps.
I usually see this issue occur with new connections, but sometimes it will surface in the normal day to day Outlook usage, causing delays.
Exchange Online is now much farther away then their servers were.
Check the known issues, and release notes to be sure you are not fighting a known issue.
We recommend it now with all Citrix deployments, but it works with RDS as well.
Just to monitor the RDS deployment, a small server with SQL Express is probably more than enough, but it will also help tell you if add-ins or plug-ins are causing you issues.
If you want to go this route, I would open a support ticket first, Microsoft will take the log output and analyze it for you and let you know what if anything they find.
Out of date clients can cause you headaches with all sorts of issues when it comes to Pro Plus clients.
Microsoft has peering points all over the world to help with latency, but when you backhaul traffic to another location and out you are not hitting the closest peering point and you're adding latency into the connection.
When all mailboxes are migrated you don't need the re-direct functionality from the Hybrid Exchange server (which most orgs will have with directory synchronization).
If your servers are in one location and backhauling your traffic to another site, it could be adding to your troubles.
I would look at FSLogix - which helps you run your VDI setup more like traditional desktops (with Outlook in cached mode) when it comes to Office Pro Plus.
This is where cached mode in Outlook really helps.