There are a VAST number of reasons to allow the user to control the settings for their game.
4k is entering the picture and how long until 6k/8k/1080k (or whatever) enters the picture?
It seems to me that it would be more logical, reusable and user-friendly to implement flexible, responsive UI layout over a 3d or 2d screen, which can then be run on any screen resolution.
(Additionally: Give me windowed / maximized windowed as well please so I can tab around easily lol)
A game can run slow on my machine because it's stuck on fragment processing (perhaps lots of particle effects like smoke).
Reducing model quality wouldn't take much load from here, and neither would reducing texture quality.
Some modern games auto-detect screen resolution and adjust the game to that, but the option to change the resolution still remains in the settings.
What about gaming on an 8 year old computer that tops out at 1280x720?
My monitor supports 4k native, but It'd choke on the bandwidth required and max out at 30fps.
Let me switch to 1080 (or lower) so that the game runs at 60fps and the text/hud/etc isn't microscopic.
That said, many games DO auto-detect, and then set the initial settings to whatever it thinks is the best your machine can handle.
If you make one universal design, you are responsible for making the game looking perfect on all the devices (could be especially hard on mobiles nowadays, espiecialy not on iOS, but on the other platforms with a huge variety of devices).
My guess is that this is one way to provide older machines with a way to improve performance by rendering less graphics and just stretching them across the screen, but surely there are better ways of improving performance (choosing different texture and model qualities, for example).
On the other hand, decreasing the resolution reduces the load dramatically here (a switch from 1920x1080 to 1366x768 cuts the number of pixels to process by half).
And if my screen happens to be big - like a TV (like my current setup - I pretend my PC is a bigger xbox) - then, in a given viewing distance, bigger resolution doesn't give me much.
So I have a good reason to turn the resolution down and perhaps even use the extra processing power to have more detailed lighting or shadows.
If you create only few different resolutions, then it is user worry to choose best looking for him (especially when his resolution/ratio is unusual).
Not only the predefined resolutions settings make it possible to react with performance in some way, but creating a universal approach, which fits all kinds of resolutions, ratios and dpis is just way much harder to create.