Got an error message the first time I ran it, ran a second time with no errors.
Looking around I found c:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\WER filled with files dated the same time of the rollback.
My mother-in-law's win7 laptop was stuck in this boot loop.
What worked for me was getting to the cmd line from the windows repair and running:
I manually deleted all that WER debris and am back running fine.
My theory - the more disk space you have, the longer the wait.
I believe the cause of my Windows Update failure was triggered by Windows Disk Cleanup tool, which I used for the first time the other day.
THIS IS 100% WORKING, GOT THIS SOLUTION WHILE EXPERIMENTING.
This also lists how you should get into the repair environment.
dism.exe /image:D:\ /cleanup-image /revertpendingactions
When you get the repair options, click on windows image recovery, then don' select anything.
Boot into Windows recovery environment and run a system repair few times.
My computer took 8 hours to roll back a failed update, but it succeeded.
Here's an anecdote that might help you have some patience to wait out a very long update reversal, if you see your hard disk light very active during the rollback.
Alternatively, try safemode and if you can get through, you can do a system restore.
Credit to: https://www.404techsupport.com/2016/04/updates-reverting-loop-windows7/
I'm guessing it took so much time writing these error dump files, and once it eventually ran out of disk space the roll back completed in minutes.
I read many reports about Windows Disk Cleanup damaging the update files.
It should fix the boot and service related issues.
Once this is done, reboot your PC and attempt to install the updates again - check your AV to ensure it is not restricting the install.
Despite the long process, I got back to the desktop, nothing was broken, but then I was out of disk space.
Boot into MiniXP and run net stop wuauserv then del %systemroot%\SoftwareDistribution\DataStore\Logs\edb.log (note this location may change when in MiniXP)
Now go to D or C wherever windows is , then Software Update after that, you will see many folders, delete datastore,download,selfupdate,post boot event cache.Then cancel the image recovery and reboot, it will show configuring windows but within 5 minutes , pc will boot up.
Select, the 2nd option that is select a system image, and then click advanced and then it should open up windows explorer.
First download and create a bootable operating system, I'd suggest MiniXP from Hiren.