Is there a best practice that I should know about?
run-this-one is exactly like run-one, except that it will use pgrep and kill to find and kill any running processes owned by the user
So, if you don want to depend on lckdo or similar, you can do this:
Now that systemd is out, there is another scheduling mechanism on Linux systems:
run-one-until-success operates exactly like run-one-constantly except
An alternative, which starts the job once at boot and one minute after each run is finished:
By "I don't want the jobs to start "stacking up" over each other", I guess you are implying that you want the script to exit if already running,
run-one-constantly operates exactly like run-one except that  it
that it respawns "COMMAND [ARGS]" until COMMAND exits successfully (ie,
String proname=ManagementFactory.getRuntimeMXBean().getName();
And then kill killid string with again shell command
In /etc/systemd/system/myjob.service or ~/.config/systemd/user/myjob.service:
I would recommend using run-one command - much simpler than dealing with the locks.
I have created one jar to solve such issue like duplicate crons are running could be java or shell cron.
                System.out.println("Current PID:"+pid);
You havent specified if you want the script to wait for the previous run to complete or not.
To solve the problem I made the script look for the existence of a particular file ("lockfile.txt") and exit if it exists or touch it if it doesn't.
This is often useful with cronjobs, when you want no more than one copy running at a time.
run-one-until-failure operates exactly like run-one-constantly except
respawns "COMMAND [ARGS]" any time COMMAND exits (zero or non-zero).
that it respawns "COMMAND [ARGS]" until COMMAND exits with failure (ie,
run-one is a wrapper script that runs no more than one unique instance of some command with a unique set of arguments.
the script execution needs to be mutually exclusive.
I have scheduled a cron job to run every minute but sometimes the script takes more than a minute to finish and I don't want the jobs to start "stacking up" over each other.
Just pass cron name in Duplicates.CloseSessions("Demo.jar") this will search and kill existng pid for this cron except current.
Note that run-this-one will block while trying to kill matching processes, until all matching
keep-one-running is an alias for run-one-constantly.
In /etc/systemd/system/myjob.timer or ~/.config/systemd/user/myjob.timer:
If the service unit is already activating when the timer next activates, then another instance of the service will not be started.