This information was displayed during the startup process when you turned on your computer.
To have the TightVNC service start in safe mode, copy it's registry entry to safeboot\network:
Administrator permission required If you're prompted for an administrator password or confirmation, type the password or provide confirmation.
http://windows.microsoft.com/en-ca/windows/what-happened-boot-ini-file#1TC=windows-7
For technical information about Bcdedit, go to the Microsoft website for IT professionals.
I know you can remotely shutdown a Windows machine with the "shutdown" command line.
3.Click the Advanced tab, and then, under Startup and Recovery, click Settings.
But I think it's impossible to remotely get a machine into safe mode (with networking).
To reboot Windows 7 into safe mode with networking, run msconfig.exe.
If you should make this mistake, you will likely be able to navigate to the boot.ini file via File Explorer, so \hostname\C$\boot.ini, and there is a chance you will also be able to remove "/safeboot:network" and save.
If you have admin rights on the remote machine then it's possible.
The boot ini file will open which usually looks something like this:
Remember to change the boot.ini file back when you're done!
It was most useful in multiboot configurations, or for advanced users or administrators who needed to customize how Windows started.
You need to edit the boot.ini file (usually found on the root of the C: drive)
I'm not sure if Remote Desktop will run in safe mode.
If your computer is a multiboot configuration, you can still change which Windows operating system opens by default, and how long to display the list of operating systems, by using System in Control Panel.
If you can save the change to the boot.ini file, then run a command prompt as admin and try running this command to reboot: shutdown /r /m \hostname /t 00
Other VNC services can probably be activated in the same way.
In earlier versions of Windows, boot.ini was a system file that contained information about the Windows operating systems installed on a computer.
This file is more versatile than boot.ini, and it can apply to computer platforms that use means other than basic input/output system (BIOS) to start the computer.
Save the changes and then force a reboot from the command line and it should restart into safe mode with networking.
On the Boot tab, you can select "Safe boot" and there is a checkbox for networking.
If you need to make changes to BCD, such as removing entries from the list of displayed operating systems, use the command-line tool Bcdedit, an advanced tool intended for administrators and IT professionals.
2.In the left pane, click Advanced system settings.
In this version of Windows, the boot.ini file has been replaced with Boot Configuration Data (BCD).
4.Under System startup, choose a default operating system and the amount of time to display the list of operating systems, click OK, and then click OK again.