Again, these are all really minor when you factor in the low cost and the near-instant access to your certificates.
I've used RapidSSL for years for my clients and have no problem with them at all with browser support.
Phone support is a bit spotty, although I've only had to call them once when I didn't have a direct line to use... which brings me to the second minor con: you need a direct line, no extensions, etc.
RapidSSL uses an automated system whereas you're presented with a verification code on the screen that must be keyed into the phone when they call.
The only difference in the more expensive certificate is the name from the end user's point of view.
This usually isn't an issue though as you can give the receptionist a heads-up that you're expecting a call in x amount of seconds (you can specify how long to wait to dial).
The reality is that a RapidSSL certificate has been issued without full verification of the user or business purchasing it.
RapidSSL calls every year to remind me to renew, and to sell me their more expensive certificate.
For instance: I buy a wildcard for *.mydomain.com and can put anything in for the star.
In addition if this was for an e-commerce web site, using a well-known CA may been seen as being better for having an established reputation for better trust-worthiness.
The short answer is that cheaper certificates tend to be chained certificates and/or the issuing Certificate Authority (CA)'s root certificates may be included in fewer browsers, in particular in older browser versions.
Super-fast verification: some of them require you to fax in company letterhead, and/or their "verification team" takes 3-4 business days to activate.
Most issuers advertise 99% browser compatibility, so I don't know if this is a major issue anymore.
And with wildcard certificates, you cannot always use the base name with the cert.
I have customers that use IBM's AppScanner against my network.
I'd not send my credit card to a site using a SSL certificate from HappyLuckyBrand that I've never heard of.
You could use this website to get an opinion: http://www.sslshopper.com/ssl-certificate-wizard.html
Clients that access my site are all Fortune 500 type companies.
and it can't be a cell phone for the verification to work.
None of them have ever had a problem with the certificate that I use.
These tools (on of their jobs is to) evaluate the certificate.