Another admin create an account with the same uid and home as the main production database and then removed the copy account.
Converted a hard drive to a dynamic disk in Windows 2003 Server.
It was a ssh connection to the proxy server at work, I wanted to shut down my laptop but instead I put 50 people without internet.
Running a full screen SSH session on one virtual terminal, doing other tasks on another virtual terminal.
Recreated the partitions without formatting, all data was stil there)
Trying to clean up a failed attempt at compiling a kernel, blew away all the module binaries for the currently running kernel.
I recovered by running to the serverroom and booting the server again.
Needless to say, the radios were banned from entering the server room again.
Only realised after I rebooted the server, which happened to be in a datacenter in California somewhere.
In the early 90's, I worked for a highly respected university in Michigan and we used walkie-talkies for communications within the IT department.
I had to repair it as we could not just reinstall it.
It was the right thing to do, except on the wrong hard drive.
It deleted the databases user and home - this was on a non stop Tandem, there was some egg on the admin face as he made it stop.
Didn't realise which VT I was on, ran FDISK, wiped all the partitions on HDB, then rebooted.
Someone I worked with removed the password file then logged out of a critical production sun server.
I have removed the resource forks from Apple files on a Sun server as I did not know why the temp files where taking up so much space.
Took some time to get the data back, also because I had no clue what to do at first.
Blew away all the userdata on that server.. (Managed to get it all back, as the exact geometry of the partitions was still displayed on the virtual terminal when the server in question came back up.
One day I walked into the server room, keyed the walkie-talkie, and boom, all 20 of our servers simultaneously rebooted.