Place all of your files (Pictures, music, text documents) in one folder.
Working for a large corporation means that they definitly have a policy in place for accessing network resources and using devices and equipment.
There's a few elements to this, not all of which is technical.
I will certainly not ask them not to look at my personal files because that's when they will look at them.
In general though, without a formal order from higher up, with reasonable cause, there's no reason someone should be rooting through your system.
Let's face it, everyone from the CEO to the janitor utilize resources for personal purpose to some degree.
I promise you, the old dude with a pony tail that's making $14.50 / hr is too busy chasing problems in the system he created in the first place to care about files on your local disk.
For all the mistrust of IT, most IT folk have better things to do than root through your private files.
Do yourself a favor, and keep your personal files on your personal computer.
The reality is that they can access anything at any time.
If you ask them not to, you will draw attention to yourself and represent a red flag.......
If its just a matter of needing a system, consider buying a hard drive, installing your OS of choice and swapping drives when working on personal systems, assuming you don't have a bios lock.
Know your rights, and your limits, and you should be fine.
Otherwise, just don't use the system for sensitive information at all.
Change file and folder options to "Don't show hidden files and folders.
From your mention of documents, its also worth noting that microsoft office occasionally makes copies for automatic recovery in the temporary directory.
If you're really that big of a privacy freak, keep your private files at home, but I promise you, nobody really cares.
First and formost, your organizations AUP - since that determines what the organization allows you to do, and what your organization is allowed to do with your systems.
I used to do IT for a large, large, conglomerate and I assure you, the IT guy could care less.
You'd want to keep it on storage media you control yourself, as suggested before.
If you do not trust a system, implicitly or explicitly, do not use it
The location and file extension may vary if you're using something else.
Install freeware such as "mylockbox" and place the folder in it to password protect the folder.
When your IT department looks into your files for whatever reason, they will only see some pictures of family and friends and other innocent things (don't go wild, choosing pornographic images or offensive ones otherwise) and most probably gloss over them.
Its worth clearing out, if you're worried about privacy.
If I were you, I wouldn't ask them permission for using the laptop for personal purposes because the answer is going to be NO, point blank.
Things you can do to protect your privacy as much as possible:
So all the encryption in the world won't prevent them from seeing your screen in the event they start a session while you have these files open.
However, with that being said, with Dameware, IT can see your screen at anytime.
Firstly, simply cause the moment you unplug it, while there might be a trail left that the document existed, the document itself is less likely to be on the hard drive.
It is a safe bet if you encrypt the files using something like a zip program, before burying them in the pictures.
You probably agree to it every time you login to the system.