As alternative solution you can think about storing plain-text copies of each PDF under the same name (converted from with, f.e, pandoc) and compare text-versions only by any tool
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/p/pdfcompare/9n9dmzjbz2nl#
Then I copied these .pdf files to another folder on my Desktop, so I can compare them.
Try the app "PDF Compare", which compares both pdf document metadata and page images at the pixel level:
I compared those files to the files in the 'taxes' folder using WinMerge to see if any of the files in the 'taxes' folder don't exist in the 'master vendor' directories, and vice-versa.
But WinMerge counts files as different just because their filenames don't match.
There are hundreds of these files & if any are in the 'taxes' folder that aren't in their corresponding 'master vendor' directory, I need to rectify that & file them correctly.
For example here we have "Vendors/Company Foo/Product Bar/Invoice#3.pdf"
The files I'm comparing are known to have different filenames, which is creating false positives when 2 files with the same document inside have different filenames.
I need to know if the file content is different despite what the filename is.
Then I have another folder with many receipts & invoices in it, that used to be maintained separately from the master vendor list, and was supposed to include a manually-created copy of every receipt & invoice that was entered into the appropriate entry in master vendor directory structure.
These receipts & invoices were to have been renamed so they're easier for the accountant to read & know what they refer to.
I have a folder full of many directories representing all the vendors my company does business with, and they include many .pdf files of receipts & invoices.
The invoices & receipts are named such that the names don't make sense without the surrounding directory structure to provide context.
I usually use WinMerge to view the differences between files, but in this case it doesn't help.
Just did this is is what I used it worked swell and it was simple!
I've searched for files of type .pdf in the top-level folder of the master vendor list, so that my search results include receipts & invoices from all the vendors in the directory structure.
For example here we have "Taxes/CompanyFoo ProductBar.pdf".