I could keep citing examples, but hopefully this should be enough to illustrate the differenes.
On unmanaged equipment, this is a process of trial and error while manually disconnecting cables, potentially creating further unnecessary disruptions.
This borders on being a question that is too broad, but in summary with unmanaged equipment you have no visibility or control.
Knowing the answers to these questions can allow you to address problems within the network.
I am answering under the presumption that you are asking about the equipment and not a managed service (i.e.
An unmanaged network is analogous to a car that has no gauges and you never have it serviced -- until it stops working.
The term managed switch is entirely meaningless to a network professional yet conveys a type of value to an end user.
Access to logs and statistics can help you isolate a wide range of problems that you might otherwise be unaware of or faster in cases where you are aware of them.
It discusses the 5 management groups (FCAPS) to understand what a typical management platform does.
it would be useful for you to go through the Cisco Prime Infrastructure data sheet for instance.
What's an unmanaged network and what makes it risky?
you are paying someone else to manage the network for you).
With managed network equipment, you can more quickly and easily identify which ports are involved based on the statistics.
You can also control the performance of the network with features such as QoS, policing and/or shaping.
Here are a couple of basic questions you can answer on a managed network equipment that cannot be answered with unmanaged equipment.
You don't know if it's going too fast, too slow, is about to run out of gas, etc.
As for control, managed network equipment typically give you many additional features to control your network.
From the use of VLANs to features like port security and DHCP snooping, you can make your network more secure and resilient to potential problems.
there are aspects if troubleshooting, capacity planning, dynamic performance management, security management, configuration  etc.
The fan belts could be frayed, your tires could be bald, or your brakes could be worn, but you wouldn't know until something bad happens.
There are many reasons why managed network equipment is much better than unmanaged equipment.