However if you are going to be using windows rather than linux, you may run into an issue about drive size once you start installing programs after installing the OS.
You should take the 60gb or two 30gb with RAID0 :))
0 means the amount of data that you will be able to recover after a failure.
What I would do is buy a SSD for the OS drive and the other would be a regular HDD as large as possible for just plain storage - have the OS boot of the SSD for quicker booting times and the large storage space on the other drive.
I have 2 laptops with SSDs, one of them also has a spinning drive for all my junk.
I'd go for 1 big drive in a laptop, please yourself in a desktop if you have space.
2x SSDs won't be twice as fast as one and it won't be twice the difference from spinning rust.
:P Or a raid1 which provides a good security against data loss.
That decision could depend more on cost and availability than on performance differences which may, or may not be noticeable.
The point I would see is that you can have your OS/software on one device and data files, on the other device, both devices potentially transmitting/receiving AT THE SAME TIME.
As those are slower ones than RAM, if everything is going through the same channel (CODE and DATA), you may experience delays that you could avoid if the bits were traveling on TWO different chips at the same time.
Have a look at http://www.anandtech.com/show/3618/intel-x25v-in-raid0-faster-than-x25m-g2-for-250 - they tested this scenario.
or should i just get one bigger and put everything on it ?
OR you can use one as a system drive and one for other stuff..
if your are looking for performance gains by having your OS on a SSD, I would recommend that.
Also, this means that you can keep your data on a separate device that you can take to other computers, without requiring that you move your OS too.
(However, if you tend to use Windows 7 (you should use that since its optimised for SSD), it'll eat your 30gb with a single bite.
one 60 gb SSD (solid state drive) or two 30gb SSDs ?
The 1st SSD is the order-of-magnitude difference, the 2nd is hte icing on the cake.
I guess this also depends on the amount of disk access you plan to have if you run Window$, chances are that you will have lots of accesses to OS/software.
should i get one for the operating system and another for some apps/games ?