http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows7/Allow-a-program-to-communicate-through-Windows-Firewall
Allow this connection; select your profile or leave as is (it should be explained in the wizard pretty well); give it a name; finish
Administrator permission required If you're prompted for an administrator password or confirmation, type the password or provide confirmation.
Here is how to change firewall settings in Windows 7, you can watch the video to learn the steps ;
Whenever I have the firewall on, I get a 8024402C error when I try to update, and it seems to update fine when I don't have the firewall on.
Allow a program to communicate through Windows Firewall
Optional: Program: select "this program path" and select the program c:\windows\System32\svchost.exe press ok
Watch this video to learn how to allow a program to communicate through Windows Firewall (1:12)
By default, most programs are blocked by Windows Firewall to help make your computer more secure.
but it seems to assume that the firewall I have is third party, I'm not sure how to fix it if Windows Firewall itself is the firewall that is blocking the automatic updates.
In the left pane, click Allow a program or feature through Windows Firewall.
Then click Action>Export policy to make a copy of your current policy in case you want to restore it.
I recently uninstalled ZoneAlarm and have decided to use Windows Firewall as my firewall as ZoneAlarm was causing me grief when I was syncing my iphone.
In the search box, type firewall, and then click Windows Firewall.
Then click Action>Export policy to make a copy of your current policy in case you want to restore it.
Then click Action>New Rule>Custom>Next in the Program step of New Outbound Rule Wizard under the Service heading select Customize>Apply to this service>Windows Update>OK
Optional: Protocol and Ports: specify tcp port 443
In Win 8 Go to Control Panel>Firewall>Advanced Settings.
Open Windows Firewall by clicking the Start button Picture of the Start button, and then clicking Control Panel.
http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_other-windows_update/8024402c-error/760ba53f-2cb1-48be-a77f-61bf445fddde
Before allowing a program through the firewall, make sure you understand the risks involved.
Open Command Prompt as administrator and type the following commands, one by one (press ENTER after each command):
Select the check box next to the program you want to allow, select the network locations you want to allow communication on, and then click OK.
If it really is just the Firewall, this should allow you to use Windows Update.
I wonder why my default settings didn't already have this?
For more information, see What are the risks of allowing programs through a firewall?
To work properly, some programs might require you to allow them to communicate through the firewall.
Anyway, I've noticed just then that Windows Firewall seems to block my Windows updates.
Essentially I added a new incoming rule which allowed all connections coming from c:\windows\System32\svchost.exe.