Problem is we're getting newer PCs and Mini-XP doesn't play nice.
No user interaction required besides removing the USB at the end.
On going backups are not needed only the ability to restore to original image state.
What solution do you folks use for a rapid restore of a crashed HDD that is network isolated?
Reflect also has a PE compatible version which can be run from the USB stick once you have booted the Hiren Mini-XP.
Any monkey could go in and swap out the HDD and insert a USB.
Workstation up and running inside of 15 minutes and it's like nothing every happened.
If you have access to Ghost Console (not just the ghost.exe) you can use it to create DOS-based ISO (or bootable USB) which will boot DOS, run Ghost, and you can even script it so running ghost will automatically image the machine.
Wait while it automatically boots-and-restores the HDD image and we're good to go.
Currently I've inherited a system that uses Ghost 32 (version from 2001 or so) to do backups of workstations, then put the backup on a bootable USB stick that is left with each machine.
Ghost 11.0 is so friggin' old it makes me think of the 80's so I'd kinda like to change it to something newer.
An idea: Rather than doing it on the Client PC (where it is newer and Hiren MiniXP doesn't work so well) - if you have an older, dedicated machine you can use (that Hiren MiniXP still works, and you don't feel like changing the system... yet), why not do the imaging at your end (and shutdown the PC afterwards), take out the HDD and then simply go to the client PC, and swap the HDD, and its ready to go (so client won't even see the imaging process, you just come in with a new HDD, swap, and done - the user will only have about 5 minutes downtime for physical HDD swap, and however long time your OS need to boot up for the first time).
Two(2) to ten(10) PCs on each network that need to have the ability to restore from a crashed HDD with minimal downtime.
After unetbootin is done with the USB stick, you can boot a PC with the master image and capture it on the USB stick.
You would have to modify the start up script to make it run automatically.
Macrium reflect is a very good program to replace ghost for Windows 7 machines - Try with the free edition but you must purchase as you have a few computers.
Another idea: If you have the funds and allowed to keep spare HDD, why not pre-image HDD with the correct workstation name/number, so any crashes at the client side, swap HDD (no waiting time).
It does means you must have as much HDD as the client PCs (10 spare HDD sitting doing nothing) but this does means you got as close to zero downtime.
You can use unetbootin to make a USB stick bootable from the clonezilla ISO.
The idea is that if we have a HDD crash, someone can go off to the workstation, swap out the HDD, plug in the USB stick and turn it on.
No configurations needed as its all been done prior to imaging.
The advantages of this is that each machine has it's own USB stick with its own fully configured and ready to go image and there is no need for network connectivity.
Ghost is old but unfortunately working decently well for the job.