Take the hard drive out of the laptop, connect it to the USB adapter, conenct that to a second PC, and "sideload" the files on it.
Since it's a 2003 laptop, I'd bet that the hard drive connection is a 2.5" PATA connection.
It may take a while but that's the way I'd do it if I had to.
You could try pulling the hard drive out of the laptop, plugging it into another machine (perhaps via an external hard drive "dock" -- you can get those at Fry's, MicroCenter, etc.
Based on the age of the laptop, I would assume that the harddrive is a 2.5" IDE drive.
Without a means of getting the drivers on the machine, you're hosed.
If so you can probably use hyperterm (built in in XP) to recieve a file via kermit or whatever serial file transfer protocols it is able to use.
I'm thinking that the state this machine is in isn't a "wiped" version of XP, it sounds like a retail clean install.
If you don't have one to hand they're easy to make up if you have a soldering iron available.
At this stage, I'd consider the machine almost a lost cause.
Newegg.com has a bunch of enclosures that could do that for you.
One way you could make it usable, with the problems you described, is to directly load the drivers into a folder on the hard drive.
You'll need another computer, and a USB hard drive adapter that supports 2.5" PATA drives (easy to find at MicroCenter or online at Newegg).
(Most laptops would have included a "system restore" disc that brings you back to the fresh install, with all the drivers in place.)
I think you may be stuck getting a new DVD drive for the ThinkPad.
Once you plug in the USB adapter and Hard Drive to the second PC, you will see it as an additional hard drive.
Every suggestion I thought up requires either the USB to be working or the DVD to work.
Somewhere on it should be the model number of the DVD drive, which you could Google and see if you can find a replacement part online.
The only other option I could think of would be pulling the hard drive from the ThinkPad, putting it in an USB external enclosure, and hooking it up to a computer and then copy the files over to the harddrive.