When the freeze occures, A and B completely stop networking (no internet/intranet, Windows explorer does not respond due to mapped network drives, A cannot ping B or anything else (timeout)) and it can last for more than a minute.
At the same time, workstation C does not face any problems.
Is the switch setup to do Spanning-Tree, and is there an option for Rapid STP or MST?
This sound suspiciously like Spanning Tree converging to me.
Isolate the problem on the network, use a traffic monitoring tool to help find where it is happening.
Not sure what all those switches are capable of doing, but the standards based pre-Rapid Spanning-Tree implementation would take around 45 seconds to move a port from newly-up to forwarding.
What are the suggested steps to diagnose this problem (without putting the network down)?
There are really annoying freezes in network communication, lasting from several seconds to more than one minute, concerning many but not all(!)
For example, there are three XP workstations (A, B, C) in the same location.
50 workstations (mainly XP-W8, mainly DHCP), several servers (miscellaneous), some other devices (VOIP adapters etc.)
There is a domain (AD/Windows Server 2012) running.
There were several major changes in our network infrastructure in the last three months (a new server, new workstations, domain) but I cannot connect the problems with a particular event.
It could be that your switches are overwhelmed and are having to do something with STP on a subset of ports?
I tried to reset switches, view logs, I even installed Microsoft Network Monitor but no help.
Usually bufferbloat is on the exiting router due to a small bottleneck, however poorly configured switches or routers may exhibit signs of this.
It may be possible that your network is being arp poisoned either by poorly configured device or (not likely), person.
These freezes occur usually in the morning when the network traffic is stronger.
Something like a 48-port Cisco 2960 would be a good fit for a small business office, and they are quite reasonable on eBay.
I'm rather a programmer, not a professional network administrator.
As someone else mentioned, have you considered upgrading these devices to something more enterprise-y?
Config would range from dead simple to complex based on what features you're wanting.
A device may poison your network until the correct updates have been sent out again.
This could be on your domain controller or workstation.
The last thing you want to do is make unintended changes and your whole network goes down.
Afterwards, the communication is restored and all three workstation communicate without any problem.
Also check whether these things happen when there are few pcs running, it may be a clue for further investigation.