This will give you arrows, enter/back, volume control/mute, and some more stuff.
I used this with XBMC and there is a mouse pointer (not very good though) that shows up when you move the mouse around.
Pretty much everything you need to remote control XBMC.
XBMC supports HDMI CEC which supports allot of CEC Enabled TV's (Usually called something else, like Panasonic VieraLink)
It's pretty straightforward process, it acts both as a server and as a client, so you should install it on both computers.
Is it possible to control the Pi from my laptop, using the keyboard and mouse, over the network?
You won't get the greatest performance out of it, as most of the CPU/RAM will be going to XBMC, but if you look here and here there are a few places you can get instructions on how to do this.
A recommended one is AWX which has a remote control, media selecting, that you can control from any browser on any device.
I know I can access a remote control from my android phone or through the XBMC media centre's local IP, but what I'd really like is the functionality of the keyboard.
For example I can use my satellite box or my TV's remote to control XBMC.
You can also plug in a Bluetooth Adapter and use a Bluetooth Keyboard and mouse.
I'm not totally sure that this will work or how to set it up, as I've never used XBMC on the Pi, but it seems to be a common enough request on the RPi forums, so I just figured I'd mention it.
Just use the remote control of any device connected via HDMI.
You can use your mouse to click on the buttons, or use your keyboard.
You can control XBMC from its web interface or any plugin you install.
It's important to notice that version compatibility problems were reported by other people over a few forums, so remember to check if your computer and raspberry pi shares the same version number.
But you need to configure Bluetooth in SSH (Or I think the latest XBMC has some kind of BLuetooth paring setting)
There are browser add-ons which will give you "remote keyboard" (or sort of).
I'm surprised nobody has mentioned it, but you could try out VNC.
MIcrosoft Wireless 3000 series just works on the Raspberry Pi (Even the first ones because it uses very little power) The USB emualtes keyboard from boot and does not need software.