Now I hear that a proxy server can be the solution for this problem.
I hope someone can point me in some kind of direction to figure this out.
You haven't posted any addition details since asked for a couple of weeks ago so I'll try to answer as best I can (and recommend the question be closed):
(Nor is load balancing unless you don't need any session stickiness or synchronization etc).
I would actually suggest looking at FreeSWITCH and their mod_verto module.
But it seems a bit illogical, because what are the benefits to place a proxy server before the sip server Asterisk?
But I can't find any information about the benefits and why video stream will flow.
Kamailio will definitely not solve the problem with video, but it can offload some SIP processing from Asterisk, and add security.
See Asterisk Security for details on how to do this.
Security:  If your goal is to secure your Asterisk server then a proxy server / kamailio is not the answer.
Why should the video flow with a proxy but not without a proxy?
FreeSWITCH can replace Asterisk completely, and it's much easier to troubleshoot and integrate.
I heard of kamailio as a proxy, registrar server before asterisk.
We are busy to develop an app to let users call eachother using webRTC.
Asterisk is pretty flexible in terms of publishing it's external IP in packets bound outside the local subnet.
Network: If your problem is NAT traversal then an SBC/Proxy can help - but isn't always necessary.
I saw somewhere that recent Chrome update has broken compatibility with WebRTC implementation in FreeSWITCH, so probably asterisk is also affected.
Also it allows to place multiple media servers behind one Kamailio server, thus allowing for load-balancing and failover.
High Availability:  If your goal is to add a proxy to redirect the traffic in the event of an Asterisk failure then a proxy isn't a great choice.
See High Availability for details on how to do this.
On this moment we have audio working, but video not.
Also, video is only supported in Asterisk version 12.