Not sure about VMWare but VirtualBox bundles a RDP service that can be enabled for each VM.
Ability to interact with screens directly from grid (by double-clicking a screen, for instance, and then getting full resolution screen) would be greatly appreciated, of course.
I like to use vFoglight to monitor our virtual environment.
ESX/i lets you have lots of consoles to VMs open at any time, you'd have to move them around to create the tile effect you mention but yes you can do that.
-Capacity Planning - Plan, manage and optimize infrastructure capacity for improved performance and better resource utilization.
Also, as long as your Foglight box is up you can view history up to the full life of a VM.
You can click on any specific console to control it but the resolution won't change (not for ESX/i anyway, it will for Server/Workstation/Fusion).
This application has to run on several computers at the same time, and it's important to me, as a developer and tester, to see (literally) how it behaves at all times on all computers.
Is there any way to connect to screens of virtual machines deployed on ESX, ESXi, Sever 2.0, or some other product, so that I can see something like grid of screens, say 4x4 or 6x4 or whatever number of scaled screens, at the same time?
-Guest Process Investigation - Drill-down into the processes running within virtual machines to understand internal performance and resource utilization.
I can watch the performance many VMs/hosts all at the same time and even be notified via email if one of them fires off an alarm (a performance hit).
-Resource Utilization Management - Identify underutilized capacity and predict overutilization of resources for future planning.
I am developing an application that works in local network.
I don't know even if I put the question right, but here's what I'd like to accomplish.
You can then launch a rdesktop viewer for each of the required VMs and leverage your desktop manager (eg: Compiz/Fusion) for the tiling and click to maximize effects.
You can setup custom dashboards to watch almost any aspect of a VMs performance.
I have avoided specifying exact Vmware virtualization product here because I'm not sure which one would be most suitable for the task at hand.