b-perfect graphs allow induced 5-cycles (unlike perfect graphs), and were shown to have a polynomial-time algorithm for colouring by Hoàng, Maffray, and Mechebbek, A characterization of b-perfect graphs, arXiv:1004.5306, 2010.
Observe that $C_5$ is $P_5$ free and thus the P_5-free graphs are not perfect.
(It is a pity that the wonderful compendium of graph classes at the ISGCI only covers cliquewidth, independent set, and domination.
Also for graphs of bounded clique-width (which is more general than treewidth): Kobler and Rotics.
The same list also has a result by Hajo Broersma, Petr Golovach, Daniel Paulusma and Jian Song ("On Coloring Graphs Without Induced Forests") that 3-coloring is in P for graphs without induced $2P_3$.
Also, clique-width is hard to compute, but there is an approximation algorithm by Oum and Seymour, "pproximating clique-width and branch-width" (with exponential approximation).
A few more remarks: the running time of the above is pretty bad (because it's a very general graph class), and it has been shown by Fomin et al.
For every fixed integer k, testing whether a graph without induced $P_5$ subgraphs can be k-colored is solvable in polynomial time ("Deciding k-colorability of P5-free graphs in polynomial time", 2008).
All locally connected graphs (graphs in which every vertex has a connected neighborhood) can be 3-colored in polynomial time, when a coloring exists: just extend the coloring triangle by triangle.
There are also results by Daniel Marx regarding the complexity of the chromatic number problem on graphs which can be made chordal by at most k vertex deletions; for every fixed k this problem is polynomial ( http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2005.10.008 ).
There are a lot of different classes of graphs that are subclasses of perfect graphs and have easier coloring algorithms; chordal graphs, for instance, can be colored greedily using a perfect elimination ordering.
(SODA 2009) that chromatic number is W[1]-hard parameterized by cliquewidth (i.e., some $n^{f(k)}$ factor in the running time seems unavoidable).
( Juraj Stacho, 3-colouring AT-free graphs in polynomial time; paper not yet published but the abstract is at http://tclab.kaist.ac.kr/~otfried/isaac2010-abstracts.html ).
Putting it together, we get a polynomial running time, where the degree of the polynomial is double-exponential in $k$.
As you observe, all perfect graphs can be colored in polynomial time, but I think the proof involves ellipsoid algorithms for linear programming (see the book by Grötschel, Lovász, and Schrijver) rather than anything direct and combinatorial.
Triangle-free planar graphs can be colored in polynomial time, for the same reason: they are at most 3-chromatic (Grötzsch's theorem).
A very recent result which is in the accepted papers list of ISAAC is that 3-colorability of AT-free graphs can also be decided in polynomial time.
Graphs of maximum degree three can be colored in polynomial time: it's easy to test whether they're bipartite, and if not then either they require only three colors or they have K4 as a connected component and require four colors (Brooks' theorem).