I have an older but functional Dell server box that I'm not using right now; however I don't believe it has the same Adaptec RAID controller.
2) How picky is Windows Server about the hardware?
I've tried to do that with at least one Adaptec SATA RAID controller and gotten BOOT_DEVICE_INACCESSIBLE STOP messages.
There is nothing at all in the Event Viewer to indicate any failures.
I'm trying to figure out whether I can take a disk out of my failing hardware and bring the Win 2003 server back up on the Dell hardware.
I know that's not what you want to hear, but it's the right thing to do.
I have a Windows 2003 server that has hung twice in the last two weeks - the second time after less than 2 hours up.
All in all, its probably a bad idea, you'd be better of using some sort of imaging software to take an image of your disks and move them to new hardware.
You can try slapping the disks into the Dell machine, but if your goal is a stable, working computer you're better off installing from scratch on the Dell machine, or ditching the hardward RAID controller on the SuperMicro machine and rebuilding from scratch with a JBOD configuration and using Windows software RAID.
1) If I take a disk that was part of a RAID 1 set, is there a way to boot that on the Dell server assuming the Dell doesn't have RAID?
I can't remember which model to tell you for sure.
For a freeze like that with no disk errors, I suspect some kind of failure in my server hardware.
If your disks are configured in a RAID array then your not going to be able to move them to new hardware, as the configuration data is all stored on your RAID controller.
The main problem your going to have is with the disk controller, if your new hardware has a different disk controller it is more than likely that windows will blue screen when you attempt to boot.
(I'm actually not sure, but for the moment I'm assuming not.)
My server is a semi-generic 1U Supermicro with an Adaptec RAID 1 controller.
Will it detect that things have change and boot successfully on different hardware?