the rest of us have to resort to hacking around and whatnot.
As Bootmgr does not use the BIOS or boot.ini, it apparently manages to use the MBR and to boot.
your tries at making the disk bootable, some incompatibility has crept in between the two that requires better knowledge than mine of the boot process to analyze.
There only seem to be about 546 KB free, it might be possible that it can't write a file upon boot.
Once it knows the location of the partition it can then find the Windows\system32 folder of the OS it has been asked to start.
is no longer correct, such as the number of cylinders or sectors, or something in boot.ini itself.
The cause is either that bootloader is calling the BIOS to read other disk sectors and that call is failing, or the bootloader does not consider the partition table valid.
If I am not mistaken, when Windows formats a disk, doesn't it create a small partition at the very end of it, or leave an unpartitioned area there?
It consults the computer's firmware (BIOS) to find out which hard drive is considered to be drive zero, then looks at the partition table on that drive to find out which partition is number one.
Sounds silly but this might be the reason why it is complaining.
In addition, bootsect updates the volume boot code, not the master boot code.
Apparently while resizing the disk you have destroyed an element that is used for the NTLDR boot process but is not used by Bootmgr.
This could be the BIOS, in the sense that the information it holds about the hard disk
someone on the internet said that these problem can be caused by a bios limit of 137gb.
NT52 is the XP boot that uses NTLDR, while NT60 is the Vista method that uses Bootmgr.
I made a copy of the boot disk, then I restored it and the system started up.
Instead it uses the unique Disk Signature in the MBR of a hard drive and the partition offset (starting sector) of a partition.
I cloned the drive out and cloned it back in, and presto- it boots.
Weird, but I wouldn't put it past Windows (and possibly something in newer versions) to have such a quirk.
You say that booting with the NT52 boot-sector does not work, but that NT60 does.
The master boot code is part of the master boot record (MBR) and there's only one per physical disk.
NTLDR uses the boot.ini file to locate hard drives and partitions.
Bootmgr consults the BCD file in the Boot folder for the information it needs to find for the correct drive and partition, but it does not use the firmware to find the hard drive, or the partition table to find the partition.
The volume boot code is part of the volume boot record and there's one per volume.
The lesson is that you have to be an expert in partitioning to pinpoint the problem.