This is a few multiplications, no trigonometry involved.
Thus, you only need to compute the z component of the cross product.
If you look at the problem space carefully, we can go even further than that.
With rotation, every hour of the day can actually be mapped to any other hour with an appropriate rotation.
You do need trigonometry to compute the position of the end points of the hands.
The cross product will only be non-zero along the z-axis (it's perpendicular to the plane formed by the two vectors).
The first is recognising that there is a lot of redundancy in the problem space.
And note that you only have unique values over 8 of those angles (the first 45 degrees), the rest are trivially derived from those.
As such, I'd wave off trying to optimize how you generate your values as unnecessary and just commit the results to memory.
polfosol's graph helps a lot here: we can see there are clear, regular local maxima roughly once per minute plus a clear maxima once per hour.
Thus, all you have to do is find the area of each piece of the three pieces of the triangle, and add them together.
Sometimes optimisation is finding ways to do the minimum number of calculations rather than doing calculations themselves faster.
This makes the solution incredibly simple: for segments larger than one minute or so we're guaranteed to find a maxima with a simple search within boundaries; searching <30 maxima for the biggest is not computationally intensive.
It is possible to instead do the same using only 3 sin functions and some other math that will take far less time.
Or you could even pre-compute sin and cos for all 60 possible angles.
This means we can precompute a small segment of non-repetitive calculations and then map any other times on to that.
If we manage to select a time period that does not contain any maxima, the maximum value is guaranteed to be either the first or the last value (which, for 2 calculations, is cheap to calculate on the fly to be worth optimising away).
The second is that those pre-computations do not need to factor into your runtime; it makes a lot more sense to load them in and just do a lookup.
Equally, the first half of an hour is a reflection of the second.
This z-component is the area of the parallelepiped spanned by the two vectors.
This currently uses 15 trig operations to calculate the area of a triangle (3 cos, 3 atan, and 9 sin).
The points are defined in 3D, with a zero z component.
For segments less than a minute we still have to check the local maxima and, if none are contained, do two calculations for the bookend values: one of them is guaranteed to be the maximum in a no-maxima containing segment as the segment must be either a 'u' shape or a slope.
The area of the triangle given points A, B, C is half the magnitude of the cross product of vectors AB and AC.
The basic idea of how to do this is that if you have two side lengths of a triangle, and the angle between them, the area of the tringle is the product of the side lengths divided by two times the sin of the angle between them, or sin(θ)*a*b/2.
If we already know those maxima and if any given time period contains one or more maxima the maximum is guaranteed to the the largest of those values.