If your ssh process is hacked, there is only one solution for this: SHUTDOWN THE MACHINE NOW!
Generally, what i suggest is to temporary replace the sshd with another version, but keep the "hacked" version for further testing ( If it's hacked and you haven't change anything to your system, then you are still vulnerable, so be examining the sshd may help you)
But, just in case, have a look for possible backdoors.
Is it something like rkhunter (http://www.rootkit.nl/) you are looking for?
Regardless, one thing you might try is passing your network connection through another system and monitoring the traffic going to and from it.
Is there anything suspicious that you see happening on your machine?
Do you mean looking for rootkits, replaced files, or network scanning software?
Though, to some extent, checksums from a ssh binary installed from the same repository should be decent enough, I guess.
You can't really try to fix a hacked system, because you can't tell which other parts of the machine are infected, and allow the hack to continue.
It is available as deb package (aptitude install rkhunter)
The old disk can be used for inspection (from a different system), and comparing the binary files with the files your package manager installed.
However, it sounds like this was just an accusation from someone on the Internet.
The safest option is to back up your configs, format the system, then do a fresh install and make sure it's fully updated as soon as possible, preferably offline.
You want to build a CD with a root file system, assorted rootkit-finding tools and (if you have it) a tripwire database from your system, from a point in time when you know it was not hacked.
2) use the lsof to check what files the sshd has open.
1) Check the official checksum and yours (someone said it before)
The only sane way is doing a fresh installation, and copying your documents from the old disk.
Just pull the plug, to avoid shutdown scripts to run.
One common thing is to modify sshd, keep somewhere the passwords and aftewards using a backdoor withdraw the file.