If you really don't want to pay $300 for a firewall, here's an option: get an old PC, put two network cards into it, take out its hard drive, and boot from a Devil-Linux CD.
I am planning to deploy a medium traffic web site and the information on the database will be important.
It is basically impossible to make a Windows server completely secure.
As for the applications risks, well that's for a different discussion.
If it's important, secure it as good as reasonable possible.
Even if you never use the features, the features are in Windows, and if any one of them has a weakness, some black hat can crack your server.
But, I can protect the database with really good passwords.
The basic problem with Windows is that Microsoft put in a huge number of features.
The key here is to keep the patches and updates current.
While I know it's popular to say that Windows is insecure the my opinion is that every operating system can be made secure/insecure depending on your skills and diligence in applying patches and updates.
It doesn't have the .NET runtime, it doesn't have an email server, it doesn't have a whole bunch of stuff that Windows has.
And a single incident where someone cracks your server and copies all your data would seriously make you wish you had spent that $300 for a firewall.
For securing a Windows Web Server you could rely on the built-in Windows firewall software to lock down the open ports.
For web server risks you will find that both Apache and IIS have their share of vulnerabilities.
The worst might be that you fall victim to a zero day exploit on Windows, IIS or the database that might have been prevented had you created an addtional layer of security.
(I do recommend Netgear; I have been burned by other brands such as Linksys, but I have not been burned by Netgear yet.)
Another option is to leverage IPSec to prevent any communication from the internet to the server except over port 80/443.
(Even worse if the cracker defaces or trashes your server and you need to rebuild it...)
You set up the firewall to only permit traffic on the ports your business actually uses, and close all the others.
I am planning to just install a software firewall.
With a hardware firewall, first the attacker has to find an exploit (in a much tougher target), and then having defeated that, might still be stopped by your software firewall.
It's not that expensive; I just checked Newegg.com and found that you can get a Netgear FVS336G firewall for under $300.
With a software firewall, if someone can find an exploit in the Windows networking code itself, your machine is still cracked.
What is the worst that could happen if I don't setup a hardware firewall?
You need to have a better understanding of the risks associated to running a (any) web server.