I have a company issue BlackBerry, so if a monitoring alert is sent, I can be notified.
As a sysadmin, I am responsible for responding to any monitoring alerts which occur out of hours.
As most people have stated, there are not many options for blackberry, but I recommend having the email send several times, and there should be a option in settings to make the alert longer and louder as I rememberer as I now have a Droid.
Criteria would be any of the following (bonus points if I can mix and match criteria)
What I'm looking for is an app (paid for isn't a problem) which can sound an alarm when an email is received that matches certain criteria that does not stop until I dismiss it.
to how you specify) and you can acknowledge from the phones keypad.
I'm not sure about Blackberry, but on Android you can use "Wake Me Up!
This is the easiest solution I found and it requires no coding.
Email is the 90's  way ... SMS is also terrible for alerts.
> Trigger an alarm > Configure > Select the Tasker alarm you created in the first step.
1) Go to Tasker and create an event triggered by a notification (Event>UI>Notification).
Try using IFTTT to parse your email look for keywords in subject our from address.
as far an action goes it can call your phone or set an IF notification
This is great .. provided I'm not in another room or asleep.
This may be borderline Server Fault, so I'm cool if it's decided this question is migrated elsewhere.
Yes, it makes a noise when an email is received, but if I miss that little noise that lasts about 2 seconds, I've missed the alert.
This is primarily for a BlackBerry, but apps for other smartphones might be beneficial to the greater community.
There are services such as PagerDuty that you can send your alerts to instead and you can have them actually phone you (it will keep trying acc.
3) For the Title enter whatever the title of the notification is (in my case it was TradingView).
You should now have an alarm that's triggered by an email notification.
The problem here is email - it really isn't meant for that and it does it very poorly.
2) For the Owner Application select your email app (in my case it was Gmail)