Even though it is technically possible to one-man-army a game project being a programmer, it is simply impossible being an artist.
It sounds hard, but it is actually very easy, if you approach the problem from the right angle.
http://www.mangatutorials.com/forum/showthread.php?742-The-Ultimate-Indie-Game-Developer-Resource-List
In one game I created, I made some very simple stick figure graphics that were merely sufficient to indicate what action / state my character was currently in.
If you still can't find an artist, then make the graphics yourself.
I've done several indie games with other people, and I've had really good experiences doing so.
Later, when the game/rendering engine is compelling, it will hopefully be inspiring and you will have less trouble finding artists willing to help out.
question, there are a dozen "how do I make a game if I'm an artist and not a programmer?"
 - Do the game without content, and try to find artists after the game has more features: you will have more leverage, and you will have much less pressure to add those features.
Doing it the other way around leads to lost money, and work that needs to be redone multiple times, which aside from harming your project, sucks your motivation to finish it (and if you're making a game to get a job, showing that you can finish a project is a good thing).
There are lots of people in the world who love games and would want to make one for themselves, but only very few know how to code.
This also goes for sound and story (if your game has one).
 - Use an user-friendly 3D modeling tool, like sketchup.
Unfortunately, pretty much everyone who is able to competently participate in the development of a game will most likely not be interested in joining your game, so that's the problem you want to attack if you want to successfully make indie games.
In my opinion, there are two ways to solve this problem.
Dwarf Fortress was mentioned, but there's also games like Geometry Wars, where the graphics are created through math.
Here's a thread that contains a ton of links that you'll find useful; everything from legal, to art to music, etc.
Most of the time, before even thinking about final assets, I just want something up and running quickly to see if it's fun.
Use programmer art, stand-ins, free sprites anything.
You can find artists to volunteer their time, but in my experience they don't like to sit around and wait for you to develop and fix a new game/rendering engine, so here is my advice (I'm assuming you aren't willing to spend any money):
But once you finish a limited version of the game, no matter how many features it's missing and no matter how crap the art and sound is, then you have a basis for making changes and improvements, and you have something to show clients or potential employers as a code demonstration.
Second, I wouldn't recommend you work on a project alone.
Anything is possible to get around if you put your mind to it.
Without much money, all these options can be frustrating.
In my opinion the important thing is the game itself.
I've played some really fun tower defense games where it's quite obvious the shooting sound is a guy going, "Pew!
You can always replace your sounds and art later on.
Keep in mind both of these options are viable only if you're serious about making games.
First, I disagree that gameplay is the only important thing in a game.
I don't think the fact you are not an artist is that much of a downer, programmer are essential to make a game, and if you don't have content, it's not really a problem:
I've had some experience writing my own games, both open source and commercial indie-style.
Visuals sell, and you will most likely have your game played by other people if you show a pretty screenshot that catches their eye.
Just record yourself making the sounds with your mouth.
It's mentioned in other answers, but while you're looking for an artist etc, you should be developing your game at the same time.
Because of this, I do not recommend you disregard art, or use stock or placeholder art for your game.
Then, when the gameplay's locked down, you can start putting in the proper art.
I want to add a slightly different point of view from what has been previously answered.
It can be a wonderful sandbox world and look like Minecraft.
You would be surprised to know that for every "how do I make a game if I'm a programmer and not an artist?"
If you stop halfway, or if they sense you're not being serious, you will lose reputation, and people won't join you in subsequent projects, so proceed only if you're actually capable, and willing to walk the walk.
So what you have to do is gather people who are interested in making a game, and making a project with them.
There's a lot of artists and musicians and game designers who want to make games, and would do them for free.
It doesn't have to have every feature you planned out.
Having more people in your project is a great way to stay motivated, and also by sharing ideas with other members you are more likely to get a better game.
It can be an excellent 3D shooting game even if the walls are all brown and the characters are cubic block people.
In few words, it's (good) programmers that are scarce, not artists.
Let me tell you that you are in a very privileged position, being a programmer.
Like you, I encountered problems with assets (images, animations, audio, ...).