I found the industry has a very strong barrier to entry, but here is what I did.
It would be a very complex endeavour, integrating everything and such, but you'd get a pretty sweet deal if you can pull this off, IMHO, because you'll charge your clients a fixed monthly fee, but you'll only pay Amazon what they actually use (which most of the time is a very limited amount of resources).
For starters you would need to decide what OS you are going to offer, will you offer Windows and ASP.net, or Linux, will you offer PHP, Rails, Java hosting.
Basically, you can do it all from one server, and if it is beefy enough, you can probably host 100 or so very modest websites on it, but you will find a lot of trouble competing.
Another option would be to use a "cloud" provider.
If things start going south, and you decide not to purse the business anymore, it is a real headache assisting your customers with finding a new host, and migrating them to it.
Leverage Amazon's EC2 and S3 to provide hosting services for your clients.
Among many many other little things along the way.
Becoming a web hosting provider is becoming very competitive these days.
Then use S3 to actually host the files for the webserver, database, etc.
Also another for databases and another for mail servers.
On the upside, you depend on Amazon service's uptime :D
I don't mean to discourage you, but as others have said, it will be near impossible for you to compete with some of the other hosting providers out there, especially in terms of bandwidth/disk storage.
Just saw your edit ~ "What to look for when choosing one" - well that a whole new ball game.
In my personal experience, I wound up with about 20 customers, and I was at the break-even point dollars wise, but I was unable to really support the customers and servers as I wanted, being a solo operation.
On the downside, you depend on Amazon services's uptime.
One thing you really need to consider is the commitment you are making.
First, create an EC2 image for each service you'll provide.
You can't just log into the server at your whim and do things that might affect your uses.
I was not making enough money or growing enough customers fast enough to expand the business so I wound up closing it down.
Before you make any decisions about hardware you need to decide what market you will be aiming at.
Look at cost and experience and not just a quick startup.
Once people have a site hosted with you, you are not only dedicated to keep the business going for them, but to maintain uptime and stability.