But, before you even do that, ask yourself if you need that serial device.
esxi4 was needed to see my 64GB RAM on my new server.
Either way, obviously you've got a virtual hardware difference.
source: http://brakertech.com/howto-convert-a-esxv5-to-esxv4-vm/
Searched Serverfault (and Google) for this, haven't been able to find an answer... We copied a VM (folder and files) from an ESXi 5.0 server (5.0.0-623860) to an ESXi 4.0 server (4.0.0-261974).
Chopper3's advise about attaching the existing vmdk files to a new vm is sound advise.
Really, the P2V tool should be updated to prompt you, "do you really want a virtual serial device?????"
Version 7 of vm hardware was new on ESX(i) 4.0, and version 8 is new on ESXi 5.0.
This details the steps needed to convert a machine from ESXv5 to ESXv4
Delete the serial device from the vm config, and try to power on the vm again.
Value was not accepted by rule 'Virtual Serial Port Device backend'."
Now when we try to start the VM on the 4.0 server, we are getting a popup error "Invalid virtual machine configuration."
Looking at the 4.0 server's logs, it is complaining of "Invalid value '/dev/char/serial/uart0' for configuration key serial0.FileName'.
(and the same mssg for uart1 for key serial1.FileName as well.)
The references to hardware versions are incorrect guys.
Thanks for any assistance; I'm not a VMware expert by any stretch of the imagination (more of a network guy...)
I compared the .vmx's for both versions and made the ESXi5.1 version to look exactly like the ESXi4.1 one, but have not changed the item's values (except for the "virtualHW.version", which I changed from "8" to "7").
Since you state that it was a P2V converted vm, that is just a little gift of that process.
(Also, the 5.0 server is licensed, and the 4.0 server is the free version.)
Had to move a not so important VM to an ESXi4.1 to expand the RAM.
Even if you got it working some other way, chances are you'd get screwed by that serial device during vmotion.
Is this a simple version incompatablity between ESXi 5 to 4, which can be fixed by a conversion tool or file edit, or is this something more fundemental?
VM Converter 5.0.1 build-875114 on Winodws is working GREAT to migrate my VMs from esxi5 -> exsi4.
I just managed to copy the ESXi5.1 files for a specfiec VM to ESXi4.1.