You can simply unpack with WinRar or 7Zip for example and in the batch I still have some notes for operation made.
But if Skype is retrieving the ads from the same server as it uses to connect yourself to the Skype services (for communicating with your contacts) it may just break everything...
It showed up in the latest version but I think it is pretty annoying.
I am using the Linux Skype client and there is no ads at all on it, so I am not sure my advice would help you.
Is recognized scanners at VirusTotal of about 3 of 50 viruses, because it´s changing the hosts file...
Therefore you have to enter your username, because the settings are at %AppData%\Skype and then in a folder with the Skype name.
http://www.mediafire.com/download/3s1903x5vc0cfvn/Skype_Werbung_weg.exe
If you can read in it "Bitte Skype Kontonamen (der nicht aenderbare) eingeben.
But it will not be given to me or third,this shows the fact, that it easily works without Internet.
You can use a network sniffer (like Wireshark) to see the IP the software is trying to load ads from.
I've written a tool that automatically removes the entire Skype advertising.
und dann siehst du ihn oben recht unter "Konten"):" It means, that you have to enter your Skype Account name.
If you are interested: This tool is a packed batch with an extra tool to easily add things to hosts file.
The Tool is Written in German, because I´am from Germany.
I know I can go back to the latest version but I would rather keep my software up to date (you know, viruses and malware and stuff) so I'm looking for something that can fix this problem in the current version of skype (and possibly newer ones)
If it is always the same (it should first retrieve the list of ads, I guess), you can try to block it in your hosts file (by assigning 127.0.0.1 as a alias of this IP, so every request to get ads are redirected to your PC and then fail).
You can find it, in Skype with an click to your username (at the top right corner) and than you can see it under "Accounts" (At the top right) Tipp: if you have linked with Microsoft, it´s not your Microsoft email Address.