As long as you have everything set up (especially e-mail), you'll be fine.
We ended up having to call those clients to have them flush their DNS cache manually.
It's a dark side of every mass-service and automated tasks.
Normally when changing the public IP of a website I like to run the site on both IPs for at least a couple of days as there are lots of people out there who have cached IPs in their DNS servers and they'll keep getting the old IP.
Then of course, after you have everything moved over and set up, you will be able to route the domain over to the new account.
This method will have no downtime, however, users may be directed to different servers so anything user-editable (forums are a very good example), you might want to disable on the old box as you do not want users with very cached DNS servers to be serving them to the old account and the ones with up-to-date DNS served to the new server.
Some content may lie on the old server like e-mail, but you'll have to speak with your client to check the email manually (using cPanel's tools) on the old box.
For really transparent (but manual) movement you can
But if it's a forum or other user-generated site, you might have "downtime" for the users who do not have the updated DNS, but there is absolutely nothing you can do for that except having a low TTL for the domains in your DNS config...
However, if you hard-coded in the paths to other sources, you will have to go into change those as the domain is now changed.
Most shared services (HostGator is good with this) provides a temporary way to preview a domain.
The worst I've seen was when moving one site for a client we had people hitting the old server for a month (just a couple people).
Using this approach, assuming that when Dreamhost removes the website from DNS they also shutdown the old site on the old server people using the cached (now wrong) IP would get an error message instead of the site.
So simply, set up the server before you transfer by using their temporary URL and make sure everything is pristine.
Last and last-1 operations can be exchanged in list
Keep the old server on for a week tops and your users will hardly notice.