That's not really my dream for a better world, but it's a reality to grapple with.
It looks pretty comprehensive as a gui for rsync on windows and rather neatly also supports shadow copies for replicating live files.
This may help rsync catch on finally to the windows crowd
Sadly it's been on my todo list for several years and is no closer to the top.
I use the Cygwin rsync extensively and it works very well.
Then I store the external drive in a fireproof safe.
I regularly run the file to back my desktops up to the external drive.
I use robocopy for rsync-like behavior in windows.
zipping a directory and shuttling it over SMB fits into Windows better, and seems almost as fast in numerous cases.
One I came across recently through wikipedia is yintersync.
I've been supporting some major US/EUR "realtime" infrastructures and I have to say everyone has very similar problems... how to replicate and be able to be active-active all the time... if you don't care about session persistence then this thing is the bomb... best thing I've found in solaris extras :-)
I understand the hang is a known problem with the Cygwin dll rather than rsync itself (which is not a criticism of the Cygwin guys.
How to run it as a service is not obvious and the command line syntax is complex.
What they've achieved is little short of miraculous!
Rsync is extremely useful if you do any sort of replication over WAN links, and it's on my todo list to write a native Win32 version.
Basically, I wrote a backup.bat file that I have on an external drive.
Also it messes up permissions to the point where I always set cygwin=nontsec, and it regularly hangs.
Most all windows machines don't have any unix layer installed.
I have recently tested this on my work dr system with good results.
You have to do a full Cygwin install just to get one binary and three dlls, and it isn't obvious which three dlls are needed.
I don't think just writing a GUI wrapper is a big step forward as fails to address some of the fundamental problems with the Cygwin version.
If anyone is interested, http://www.ratsauce.co.uk/notablog/UsingRsync.asp describes the results of my many hours of pain getting Cygwin rsync to work on Windows.
Oh boy, you guys have obviously been missing the utility "Unison".