If you go around your campus and logon with your top admin, someone may be looking over your shoulder for your password.
Nothing worse than an administrator who says "it works for me" and closes the ticket :)
It also limits the damage your personal browsing can do -- ideally, your day to day work shouldn't even have local admin privileges, much less domain admin.
In all theory, it is best that you don't use a top administrator logon for your day to day activities.
Namely, once an attacker gains access to a local admin account, they will use that power to migrate into a process with a Domain Admin token.
(Example) A proper penetration test will prove this easily.
I find it hard to follow that rule, but I would like to follow it.
The third is the Domain Admin accounts, and used solely for administering servers and the domain.
Colleagues were reluctant at first but it became a rule of thumb, after the typical question about the virus threat "we got an antivirus" was debunked by an outdated virus database...
If we wanted to be more paranoid/secure, a fourth would probably be in order.
There are plenty of reasons such as viruses - if you get a virus and you're running Domain Admin logon, then the virus has an easy way to get on your network, full access!
As others have mentioned, it prevents you from doing something accidentally, or from you getting compromised from browsing the network.
(200ish people, 6 man ops team)  In fact, our Domain Admins have -THREE- accounts.
In my former company's, I insisted that all the System Admins got 2 accounts, ie:
Least Priv should be reason enough, but in case that's not, also consider that if you use an account with the same permissions as your users, you are more likely to suffer any issues that they do - and you can debug them on your own account too - often before they've even seen them!
As for an example of people using this, my company does!
The possible mistakes are easier to make for sure but I don't see that as the biggest challenge.
One for everyday use, one for PC administration/installing software locally.
It's also incredibly useful to counter Pass the Hash or Windows authentication token hijacks.