The fifth edition will be released in June 2009, and it will cover Windows Vista and Server 2008.
In particular, pay attention to any program for which the handle count is steadily increasing, as this might indicate such a leak.
I had a bug in one of my programs that exhibited these problems, bringing up new programs would have problems with missing or incomplete toolbars, file->open dialogs not showing, alt-tabbing not working properly, and strange errors, etc.
Unfortunately, what exactly a "high number" is depends entirely on the program.
The fourth edition covers Windows 2000, XP, and Server 2003, and it is available by itself or as part of the Windows Server 2003 Resource Kit.
Windows limits the space allotted to resources, so that they cannot use all of system memory.
See Q126962: On the desktop heap for solution and read Raymond Chen for some more information.
And this space is pretty limited, and, what's more important, fixed in size.
That is why you have plenty of free memory but not enough resource space.
Could be a handle leakage in a program you have running.
Mark Russinovich and David Solomon (of Winternals and Sysinternals fame) have written a book that details the guts of Windows thoroughly:  Windows Internals.
Drivers, and other stuff far enough down to be playing in or around the kernel, can cause big problems when they're not working properly -- and it's a bottleneck that's not always visible in the obvious CPU, memory, or disk I/O paths.
In Task Manager you can use the View->Columns menu to show columns for handle as well as user and gdi objects, which both uses handles, if you find a program with a high number there, it could be the culprit.
One or both of these volumes may be of help for you, but be warned:  This is not just a Saturday-afternoon read!
That's because Windows has so called "desktop heap" where most of the GUI objects are living, menus, icons and what have you.
The term "resources" or "system resources" on Windows refers to various objects (such as window handles) inside the operating system.