Dell has an on-line diagnostic programme but, again, this shows no starting problems.
Now back to msconfig; I first selected “Selective Startup” and then disabled all startup programs.
Another strange phenomenon is that if I chose “Use Last Good Configuration” using the F8 procedure, usually the computer freezes as usual.
On completion of restoring the computer to an earlier stage, all is well and the computer behaves perfectly.
But occasionally it proceeds to a good boot, but after a few minute the computer crashes and I have to go back to safe mode to effect a recovery.
It seems to cure the problem, but only temporarily.
I had not installed any hardware immediately prior to the problem starting, nor any software, other than program updates.
Before I describe the actions I have taken with msconfig, I should say at this stage that if the bootup freezes, the only way I can get back to normal operation, is to boot up in safe mode and then use system restore.
As soon as I turn off and try to restart, once again the computer freezes.
I conclude from this that it is not a startup program that is the problem.
Provided I don’t turn the computer off all remains well.
When I press F8 on start up and select “Repair the Computer”, again there is no repair.
When I have finished work, I put the laptop into “Sleep” mode  and it restarts (without a boot, of course) and I carry on working normally.
And using system restore is the only way I can recover my computer and use it normally – provided I don’t turn it off, of course.
I have never known system restore to behave this way before.
But unlike all other occasions I have used system restore, the “cure” is not permanent.
I have had a couple of ideas from people there, but nothing that gets anywhere near solving the problem.
My computer is a Dell Inspiron 1545 laptop, with Windows 7 (SP1) and a 64 bit architecture.
I have joined the Microsoft forum, and put my problem up for discussion.
I could ignore the problem and never turn the computer off, but I would like to find an answer and fix it.
My problem is that the laptop freezes on boot up at the “Please Wait” screen and does not proceed to “Welcome” and completion of the boot.
I have, of course, run a full malware scan with Microsoft Security Essentials, with no problem detected.
Now, I am reluctant to disable system services or use diagnostic startup in msconfig, since I have read that doing this removes all system restore points.
I have a Windows Repair CD but when I boot from this, it tells me it can find no problems on starting up.