"Trusted" means you are entirely confident that no on on the remote host will get access to your Xauth data and use it to monitor your keystrokes for instance.
I already had the latest XQuartz 2.7.11 installed, but I think I've also updated the OS a few times since then.
That bit me several times before I read enough docs to understand what was happening.
and now ssh -X hostname works (XQuartz 2.7.11, macOS 10.4 Mojave)
I don't have a setup that can exhibit this behavior, so this is a shot in the dark:
An "Untrusted" connection attempts to limit what a black hat could do to you by engaging the X11 security extension and disabling other extensions that you (hopefully) don't need.
You can place this in either ~/.ssh/config or /etc/ssh/ssh_config, and you can make the option specific to a particular host by including Host <hostname> on the line above.
But actually it's an option you're supposed to use in situations where the connection IS trustworthy and you want to run stuff without extra security measures getting in your way.
As has already been explained above, the following worked for me:
When I use ssh -X on my Mac (running OS X 10.6.7) to connect to my Ubuntu (11.04) box, I get the following warning:
I reinstalled XQuartz 2.7.11, and now it is working fine.
the <hostname> component matches what you type on the command line (not the resolved hostname), and it can include wildcards.
The warning might be suppressed if you set ForwardX11Trusted to "no" for hosts that give this warning.
Is there something I can do to make this warning go away?
"Untrusted" is the one that makes it (somewhat) safer to deal with an untrusted remote host.
If it's not, I'll file a new question about that.)
SSH will use additional security measures to try to make X11 forwarding safer.
"Untrusted" in this context means you don't trust the connection.
X11 forwarding seems to work fine, though I do see this message:
Do you need to be able to rotate your X display from the remote host?
It's also important to note that "untrusted" X11 forwarding turns off after a certain amount of time to keep you from accidentally leaving it on.
New attempts to open windows will just fail after that.