Then, if you have a DNS server, then a DHCP one isn't big issue.
To me this seems like the bee's knees, and it leaves me wondering why someone would want to go through the trouble of configuring a DHCPv6 server instead.
If you really want that sort of control over your IPv6 addresses, you don't understand IPv6 yet.
In example, if you wanna attribute a local domain name for every device, you're gonna need a local DNS server anyway.
DHCP server allows you to use other rules to set addresses.
Also, dhcpv6 is good for prefix delegation, I like to assign /128 addresses.
Got a computer that can't use ndp to get dns, so have to use dhcp to get dns, tftp and certificate server.
It also can be used to provide additional configuration parameters beyond the basic address/gateway supported through autoconfiguration.
It was ingenuous to do that, as it increased address size and reduced privacy, some say security too.
Dhcpv6-PD is actually really efficient in the sense of ad-hoc networks.
This VLAN can't access Internet and neither see your devices.
In a IPv4 network with all devices' addresses handled by DHCP server, if it fails, soon enough (when leases start expiring), nobody will be able to talk anymore.
Say you wanna restrict only known devices to your VLAN, and configure another one for new yet-unknown devices.
An example might be WINS servers, NTP servers, TFTP boot servers, and other less common options.
A big issue with SLAAC is that a device's address has its MAC.
If all connections are done by these names instead of (very) long IPv6 addresses, then you have back your centralized server giving you neat features and that irritating risk.
One thing that DHCPv6 supplies that autoconfig doesn't is DNS servers.
None of which are worth the pain of deploying a DHCPv6 architecture in my opinion.
DHCPv6 provides more control to the administrator in assigning addresses.
SLAAC was a good attempt to autoconfig addresses and remove the centralization that a DHCP server obliges.
I don't manage networks as a profession, so I'm guessing that there are some obvious simple reasons why one would want to support DHCPv6 that don't occur to me.
Could someone please elaborate on what these reasons might be?
IPv6 and RFC 2462 provide a means for hosts to configure their own IP addresses via stateless address autoconfiguration.