When someone at address 130.103.2.1 sends e-mail to 130.103.2.4, the router is smart enough to see that the message is staying on the same subnet.
When 130.103.2.1 sends e-mail to 130.103.1.4, however, the router forwards the message to the other subnet.
The "1" bits in the mask are also called the network prefix, and often
For instance if you're on a LAN party without internet even if you know the IP of a google server you won't be able to reach it because there is no physical route to it.
It is made by setting network bits to all "1"s and setting host bits to all "0"s.
I'm trying to wrap my head around subnets and how hosts communicate between them, but the articles I find usually only focus on calculating the subnet and host IDs rather than how and why to use them.
A less extreme example would be a network that has three segments and no default routes.
the subnet IP address is defined using their number, such as
It is called a subnet mask because it is used to identify the network address of an IP address by performing a bit-wise AND operation on the netmask.
When someone from anywhere within the intranet sends a message outside the 130.103 intranet, the router forwards the message out to the Internet.
It's why you have the network ID (think of it as the corporate telephone number) and the host ID (which is your extension) and you need a third party to reach another network ID (some department within your corporation that you'd need to call if you want to talk with someone outside of your corporation).
I understand that the point here is have two separate networks which in turn reduces congestion, but I can't see why the subnet mask is needed.
The subnet mask separates the IP address into the network and host addresses
There is no need to investigate any routes to the other subnet or to the Internet.
Each endpoint (in theory) is capable to be a router which is why everyone needs to implement that mechanism.
The IPv4 Subnet mask is a 32-bit number that masks the IP address, and divides the IP address into network address and host address.
The bitwise intersections of all IPv4 addresses in the same network segment
A packet won't be able to reach it's destination if there is no path available.
The IP address inside the subnet has two components : the network address and the host address.
Unless you setup a route that tells R1 that he can reach hosts with a network ID of C through R2 he wouldn't know what to do if he gets a package that should be send to network C.
1.2.3.0/24, where the network mask is implied as having 24 bits of "1".
If you notice you have a network ID that is different to your own you know you won't be able to stay within your own network and send your traffic somewhere else/do routing.
The subnet mask is important to decide what is on your own network.