Unfortunately negating the purpose of a consistent colour theme.
I made PowerPoint template on PowerPoint 2010 for PC and everything seemed to be just fine.
I tried to do the same thing on a blank presentation (and blank document in Word) and I could reproduce the same result.
I've had this in the past, used color profiles on my mac with Internet Explorer (about 10 years ago).
Also if you set the text to the same HSB value as you changed the solid fill, it goes darker again by 1 Saturation step.
So I tripple checked the RGB-values on the background and they was OK.
It doesn't seem to be a profile issue, as the colour appears differently between a native solid colour filled shape or background and text filed with the same, manually entered RGB value.
So you should check if color profiles are active on one of the computers.
Why is there a difference in the background color and the text color when they both have got the same RGB-value?
But it's a mystery why text and solid filled shapes appear differently.
So I tried to write some text over the background with the SAME RGB-value on the text as on the background.
But when I opened it on my Mac (PPT 2011), I could see the background color was wrong.
The problem here is that, if a colour theme is to be saved, 2 values for the same visual target colour between text and solid fills will be required.
No colour is sampled from a placed object.The text just appears darker and is closer to the visual appearance of the RGB colour in Photoshop on the same screen.
But if you go back to the PowerPoint 'more colour' slider, the values are listed differently than those entered before.
This has probably to do with color profiles, probably on your mac, but it might be on the PC of course.
It seems to me that the text got the correct color and the background is wrong.
I made screenshots of websites I created and opened in IE, that had completely different colors from the same colors in Photoshop.
Disable them, and then see if this problem disappears.
As a workaround, by using the equivalent HSB picker values in photoshop, entering them in PowerPoint and changing the Saturation setting by 1 point, the solid fill matches the text colour.