Can anybody recommend an alternative solution of a way to make the Microsoft digital signatures work for that use case?
The whole point is that the spreadsheet keeps being edited with more and more data added as the tasks are being completed and I just need a form of signature of who completed which task when, while being able to keep editing the spreadsheet in the meantime.
On that spreadsheet, I have a worksheet with a list of tasks that have to be completed, but not necessarily by the same person and certainly not at the same time (it takes about 2 weeks to complete all the tasks on that list).
I have done quite a bit of searching and it looks like even though many people have reported the same issue, there is no solution offered.
I have an Excel spreadsheet that lives on a shared folder, that everybody can access.
I was searching for an answer as well and was pretty frustrated until I saw this YouTube video.
So I got an idea and tested this trick out myself.
First, add the first signature box like you would normally do.
The video only shows you how to sign but does not show you how to set up multiple signature.
I have tried using the digital signature feature provided by Microsoft as detailed in https://support.office.com/en-us/article/add-or-remove-a-digital-signature-in-office-files-70d26dc9-be10-46f1-8efa-719c8b3f1a2d, the only problem is that it appears to be designed to be used only once per document.
Then you can right click on the 2nd signature box and select Signature Set Up.
Add as many signature boxes as you need just by Copy and Paste, then update the Name and Title etc.
(I am not allowed to post the link here so just google for "Add multiple signatures to excel document").
You would see one or mostly likely can figure it out yourself.
If I choose "Edit Anyway", the first signature disappears, even if I choose the level of commitment to "none", which kind of defeats the purpose of having multiple signatures.
I would like each person to sign off each task on the spreadsheet after it's done so that we have a record of who did what and when.
Even though I am able to add multiple signature lines to the same spreadsheet, once one is signed, I get the following message:
Once completed, follow the instructions on a video that I found on YouTube on how to Sign in the appropriate box.