As others have noted various vendors have toolkits for this, but to really answer what is involved, we need a lot more information about what traffic you have, what problem you are solving, and what tools you have available to you already.
For centralized monitoring, NetFlow is probably your best bet.
Cacti (free) may have support for the "Weather Map" report that you are looking for.
I assume you are asking about prioritizing traffic based on specific aspects of the application layer control protocols (btw, I use TCP/IP terminology rather than OSI ones when discussing TCP/IP because IMO the OSI model does not map to TCP/IP as well as one might think --- for example try to understand how H.323 fits on the model, both as originally designed and when over TCP/IP).
Needless to say different application protocols will have different requirements and possibilities.
How would you classify the traffic and actively monitor and respond (dynamically prioritizing traffic)?
I think this depends heavily on the platform on which you want to accomplish this.
How can one perform quality of service based on layer 7 traffic?
There are various free and paid tools that can collect and report this data (the router pushes this data to your management station).
NBAR is the Cisco feature that is capable of classifying traffic at layer-7.
For example, IOS uses NBAR to classify transit traffic, primarily for QoS and security mechanisms.
To do this you need either routers or the like which can understand the protocols you wish to shape traffic based on.
Are there any solutions which provide a kind of weather map?
But as far as I know, NBAR QoS configurations are entirely static.
The bundle simplifies deployment of the NFDUMP capture, dump and analysis tools and gives you a nice frontend to view it all in and make graphs for management.
For monitoring of traffic Netflow & NFSEN is your friend.
I have never done this so I cannot comment on how easy or hard this is.
Again there are many tool options and Cacti is a good place to start.
Also for monitoring you may want to look into a reporting tool that uses SNMP to gather the usage and drops from your traffic classes.
For custom applications you need to write your own PDLM.
This is way too broad, but here is an effort to answer what I think you are asking.
It would be advisable that you configure your device with 'snmp mib persist cbqos' if you go that route (this keeps your ifIndex values static across reboots).
For this reason, it depends on the platform, the protocol, and what you want to accomplish.
As a simple example, maybe you want to prioritize TFTP requests for PXE booting over other TFTP requests, or perhaps you want to prioritize H.323 signalling of some types over others.
I have personally found the IP addresses and/or ports have worked well for classifying my traffic into my supported traffic categories.
As far as monitoring goes I would agree with Jeremy that NetFlow is the best feature to use.
These routers then need to be able to inspect the packets deeply at least when required, and then shape the traffic based on what they find.
NBAR uses something called a PDLM (Protocol Description Language Module) which is basically the logic for determining is traffic is a match.
This feature allows the use of the 'match protocol ...' command within your class-map so that you can then take action, such as marking the DSCP value or policing, the matching traffic.
What follows is more information concerning Jeremy's answer above.