By SQL injection from sites, I take it:  (a) you have some web forms, (b) there's a SQL back-end, (c) you use methods which prevent user input from being mis-interpreted as SQL (parameterized queries, etc.)
The penetration tester will be thinking about bugs that might be in your code, so they will try inputs which seem not to make sense -- such as twice-UTF-8-encoded single quote marks.
Where surname and firstname are unfiltered inputs from a web form.
Also, look for &quot; and other HTML entity sequences.
They have a client for most firewalls that will pull the logs and send them to the DShield database.
If you can revers lookup the ISP name from the IP I would send the info there.
But still you would like to detect attempts at SQL injection.
You can search arxiv.org and find some papers which detail certain specific attack flavors: cross-site scripting, SQL injection, URL modification.
One of the standard ways to attempt SQL injection is to probe around seeking an input field which is incorporated to a SQL query by using string insertion.
Also, you might consider the same heuristics after, e.g., UTF-8 decoding the input.
Either everyone else understood something else or I did, but from what I can understand you are trying to report the people attempting SQL injections to their ISPs.
In this example, a user could provide the name firstname=Johnny', surname='-';DROP DATABASE;--
This will usually be a dead end, and you're better off just blocking the users attempting the attacks, as most machines performing attacks are not usually owned by the 'hacker', and instead they could be compromised machines, or someone abusing a website which offers free vulnerability scans or something similar.
This lets us convert what later should have been string, surname, into commmand.
Most ISPs have an abuse@ispname.com email address for reporting such things..
Because '' (two single quotes) in SQL is interpreted as an escaped ' which is part of the string, we have "broken open" the string delimiter in the intended original statement.