233.X.X.X is public IP witch used when you connect from outside from your LAN.
EDIT: I should add that you may want to get a static IP or use dynamic DNS to make your life easier unless you want to have to constantly check what your IP address has changed to.
192.168.X.X is a private IP range, so you can't connect to your phone from outside of your LAN.
and ONLY public IP can be recognized from outside of your LAN.
If it isn't you will have to either find a way to open it or get your service provider to do it for you.
The real IP i that get assigned to no-ip is 223.X.X.X.
If you don't have access to the router settings then you may have to do a port scan to see if it is open.
but if you have a VPN server that you can connect from your LAN and outside,
Yes it is possible, but you will have to open up the proper port (probably 22) from your modem/router firewall settings (and maybe forward the IP).
In your case, I think there's no way to connect your phone directly.
Thanks p1lOt, but the problem is i do not have access to the modem/router, i am using my phone hotspot for my internet connection.
99% of mobile providers are having such an infrastructure, that everything goes through other internal ip, and you can't do antything about that.
Finally, for security reasons, when you expose your Raspberry Pi to the internet, set a strong password, as the default Raspbian password is well known; additionally, consider setting the external port on your router to a randomly assigned port, so a hacker superficially targeting port 22 would not be able to easily detect that the SSH port is open.
You should also consider setting a reserved address for the Raspberry Pi on your router so you do not need to worry about its IP address changing due to DHCP.
If it is working already on the LAN then that should be all that's really left to do.
Almost every router has port forwarding settings in its advanced options; log in to the router control panel and add a port forward to port 22 (SSH) on your Raspberry Pi.
If your hotspot is based on mobile network, then you simply can't do that.