From one dvorak user to another, embrace qwerty on the iPhone!
I assumed the dvorak support would be quick to follow.
I am a Dvorak user and I have to disagree with people who don't want it on the iPhone.
One finger covers the keys on the left side, the other on the right.
For this reason, and considering how important auto-correct is to the smooth user-experience of the iPhone, I doubt Apple will enable Dvorak keyboards anytime in the near future.
If you're willing to jailbreak it, you can run Cydia and install a Dvorak add-on for iKeyEx.
It's true that the gains of Dvorak on the touchscreen are negligent, but my iPhone is the last place in my life where I have to switch my mental context into Qwerty and I don't like it.
The accepted answer is excellent, but I'll add this last point: the iPhone's auto-correction algorithms depend on knowing the proximity of the "keys" to each other.
My typing method is to use the first two fingers of my dominant hand, not the thumbs.
Dvorak is a pretty niche thing and it's pretty unlikely to be a standard option for something as consumer driven as the iPhone.
Rearrange the letters and, sure, the iPhone will know that in Dvorak, "Y" is next to "P", not "T" -- but its dictionary is probably not set up to quickly look up words that replace Y's with P's.
Granted, I think it would be somewhat advantageous to have dvorak since the vowels and common consonants are divided up this way, but it would also cause a lot more typos given the proximity of the frequently used letters.
It's important to recognize that not only does the phone have to know that "Y" is next to "T" (which is easy), but it also has to know, quickly, what other English words I might have meant, considering that both "U" and "T" are next to "Y", both "W" and "R" are next to "E", etc.
So you should instead the qwerty layout on the device as a good thing, not a disadvantage!
Fingers are much more nimble and accurate than the thumbs, especially with a touch device like the iPhone.
In fact, one of the reasons I held off on buying a smartphone until the iPhone was I didn't want to be tied to a physical Qwerty keyboard on my mobile device.
Anyway, no native support and I'd guess nothing coming in a hurry.
The biggest disadvantage to qwerty on a regular keyboard is the far reaches, but on the iPhone this actually works to your advantage, and there is really no risk of CTS on a device like the iPhone.
But you could look here:  http://kasperowski.com/2008/05/iphone-dvorak-keyboard.html though it's a hack with some major issues.
For example, on a QWERTY keyboard, "Y" is next to "T", so when I type "YESY", the phone knows that I probably meant to type "TEST".
In other words, the iPhone's English dictionary is almost certainly indexed and optimized based on the kinds of common mistakes made by QWERTY users.
This, along with autocorrect, allows one to type fairly quickly with a low rate of mistakes.
(Source: http://kasperowski.com/2009/03/iphone-dvorak-for-real.html.)
As a dedicated user of Dvorak keyboards, this bums me out, but I still love my iPhone.
The only method I've seen involves jailbreaking and hacking the Cyrillic keyboard, replacing it with the Dvorak layout.
I tried it and there were issues so I abandoned it.
And while Apple has been good to dvorak users in the past, it is highly unlikely they will support this keyboard on the iPhone, as others noted here.
It's also a keyboard layout designed to reduce fatigue with 10 finger typing which really isn't applicable to the iPhone/iPod Touch which means that they'd be developing it solely so people who already use Devorak know where the keys are slighly more intuitively (about 100,000 worldwide, most of whom won't have iPhones).