Assuming users don't connect directly to IP addresses you can modify DNS configurations/host file entries so that they technically override the existing local network setup.
To avoid all the issues mentioned above, I'd definitely plump for an IP range in the 172.16.n.n or 10.n.n.n range.
This is slightly bemusing to me because in most of the environments that I've come across for remote users to have VPN access the administrator needs to to have control/management over connecting users to ensure that the network remains secure.
So, what is the ideal networking address setup to avoid this?
This means that the administrator can control the IP address range which means the chances of what you are describing is basically impossible.
One option is creating a script that you run on connecting systems to overwrite routing tables to reduce the chances of a possible conflict (am aware that certain VPN solutions are able to do this).
Since you have administrative access you should be able to do this quickly and easily (though I've since read another comment which brings IPv6 issue into play).
openvpn client override default gateway for vpn sever
Effectively, the organisational network setup will take precedence over the local network setup.
I have users that VPN into our firewall which then essentially adds them to the network.
Another way is to change your organisational setup to have a less common IP address backbone.
For example, in the server config file for the VPN server, I'd allocate an IP address range of say 10.66.77.0, with mask 255.255.255.0 - the VPN server itself will take 10.66.77.1, each VPN client will get the next free IP above this.
https://support.rackspace.com/how-to/modify-your-hosts-file/
Works for me, no conflicts from connections using 'home' routers, which are mainly in 192.168.n.n range.
That said, your solution does seem workable but very difficult with regards to using different IP ranges.
However, if their home router has an IP address of 192.168.0.1 then of course we have all kinds of issues.
Obviously, you'll need to change the type of VPN setup you have to give you  some of the options that I'm outlining above if you don't already have them.
https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/263678/openvpn-understand-the-routing-table-how-to-route-only-the-traffic-to-a-spec
My internal network is 192.168.0.x with a gateway of 192.168.0.1.
I have seen setups where the remote users have router addresses in the 10.x range also so not sure what i can do to prevent this.
The best you can do is to use a range for the network that you give vpn access to, that you expect none of your users use.
There's a good chance a lot of your users won't have changed that their routers use 192.168.0.0/24 or 192.168.1.0/24 (the two ranges I have seen the most in consumer gear), if you have an idea of some who might have chosen to use a different range, ask them what they use, but users who have done so will also know how to change the setup of their own router to avoid the conflict.
That means administrative access, control, etc... of connecting machines and users.