I had to remove the atheros drivers inf files from windows 10 driverstore by running the pnputil from command line.
Anyways hope people like me not to get frustrated anymore.
---Switch off bluetooth switch on laptop  ( or else disable / enable bluetooth ) hardware
The built-in Bluetooth module was 3.0 and rather than buying a $25 replacement and disassembling most of the laptop to swap it out, I bought a $10 USB 4.0 adapter.
BT device was connected but under playback none of the services related to bluetooth were available.
First to search the listed drivers to find the ones related to bluetooth
Solution two : buy a bluetooth 4.0 dongle and connect to your headset.
My Dell Latitude (originally Win 8 upgraded to Win 10) would pair and connect with Bluetooth headphones and, after much tweaking with drivers and settings, would show the headphones in the playback devices list but never actually work.
Solution one : try to install Bluetooth Suite Win 7 & from Atheros.
There were however, 3 virtual bluetooth types, that when I right clicked to properties, were associated with the atheros driver.
What I found is that when I looked in devices and printers and then at the properties for my headset, and hardware tab, there was no sound type device functions associated.
The headset would connect okay, but then afterwards during enumeration, it didn't seem to enumerate correctly.
There is a reason for it but I am not a real tech.
Have you tried uninstalling and re-installing your Bluetooth adapter?
The bluetooth device used a Qualcomm Atheros driver.
When I uninstalled the bluetooth driver, the generic microsoft bluetooth driver would associate, but the same virtual bluetooth types were still showing up as device functions after enumerating, and they were still associated with the atheros driver.
I tried uninstalling, using old drivers, the latest dell supported driver, third party atheros drivers, but nothing was working.
I recently had a similar issue with my windows 10 laptop.
My bluetooth headset would connect, but then would not appear as a playback device in my sound manager.
After this, when using the generic windows bluetooth driver the device re-enumerated and then the correct hardware device functions became available.
I uninstalled the internal module, plugged in the new one, and both sets of my Bluetooth headphones connected and worked immediately.
Then after searching the list, delete the ones with the appropriate oem number
It can be searched and downloaded online for win 7 and lower.