Interestingly the Intel is the only one that stayed on a stable 690-720 Score.
My experience has shown that there's a strong likely hood they're not made for each other.
SandForce controller is a popular SSD controller, which gains significant performance boosts though data compression.
Do you have a TPM chip in your laptop, and is your laptop UEFI capable?
Bitlocker; however, has had serious conflicts with the SSD.
If your processor is overtaxed, the processor may limit file I/O speed (although I believe hardware-accelerated cryptography should minimize the likelyhood of this happening).
(Intel, Kingston, OCZ RevoDrive, Corsair, Samsung, Crucial).
You have to make sure you buy the SED version, not the plain version.
I have not found a Sandforce based drive that supports this, but Micron has one: Micron C400 SED.
The bulk of Bitlocker in this mode is acting as a "Gatekeeper"  since SED drives still need a means of access control to unlock the drive.
In my experience, Bitlocker does in fact have a noticeable degradation in performance even with HDDs.
Relatively, across the board, the SSD is faster than the HDD!
Whether it be a fault in the SSD, Bitlocker, or both, the machine stopped accepting passwords and recovery keys all together.
The main problem is that the volatile nature of SSD causes Bitlocker to believe that there has been a change in the hardware configuration even when no such change has taken place.
After decryption of the drive I've had no problems and performance has been very good!
When those are activated in this mode (with W8 and Bitlocker), the drive is initially locked and the system will only show a very small "shadow partition" under 200MB.
Now the score of the Intel is down to 580 consistently.
Because BitLocker does not really change the usage characteristics of the drive other than changing the data itself (e.g.
Using an OPAL compliant drive will allow you to use Bitlocker in Windows 8 in conjunction with the drive's encryption (which it's already doing).
Needless to say sacrificing a large amount of security.
First the test involved simply clocking the OS start up time.
This is where the W8 boot files are stored and the unlocking in Bitlocker happens with it interacting with TPM to pass a key to unlock the drive.
Encrypted data does not compresses (it looks random and unpredictable by design).
This has security implications but performance wise this allows the drive to do more garbage collecting and avoids performance degradation over time.
Only testing larger files (at least 1 GB) there was also a significant increase in speed.
With SSDs, the comparisons I've seen seem to indicate the degradation is worse, perhaps enough that a lot of the benefits to SSD is reduced.
That is, I would still expect the 20%-10% decrease in performance that MaximumPC found, as mentioned in the thread you link to.
Note that the speed of BitLocker may be bottlenecked by either the processor or the drive.
If you don't want to go Windows 8, you lack TPM (though I assume you have it since they asked you to enable bitlocker), or BIOS instead of UEFI there are a number of software products that can manage SED drives in place of Bitlocker.
it does not cause the OS to write randomly instead of linearly), it should have the same impact on an SSD that it would have on platters.
Bitlocker, unlike TrueCrypt, supports TRIM (leaves empty  parts empty and unencrypted).
After receiving my RMA, encrypting the drive and using as usual, the exact (change of Hardware Config.)
Bitlocker in this scheme does not actually do any encryption from the system side (at least for data read/written).
I've been running Windows 7 Ultimate 64 Bit, using a SSD (120 GB) for about 5 months.
I've been running the most current version of AS SSD on the various SSDs I have around.
The end result  is an ongoing request for passwords and/or Bitlocker recovery keys.
In my view, a SED based SSD with Bitlocker management (or another software piece) is the best way to go.
I'm using a 1TB HDD (middle to high end) at 7200RPM as my comparison.
If you need full disk encryption you should prefer a different controller (try Samsung).
The others deteriorated a couple of numbers every month.
That is until I activated BitLocker on my Lenovo T430S.
That is, if the processor can encrypt/decrypt faster than the drive can read/write data, then file I/O will occur at near the speed of the drive.