I understand that Windows 7 will try to use up all available ram over time to allow for quick access of programs and other services (caching basically), but this doesn't explain why after 2 weeks of computer up-time I am having to close tons of programs/processes just to use a program without screen-freezing lag, whereas with barely any up-time I can run multiple programs just fine.
RAMMap is the bomb, but most of the time you just need Commit Size, as apposed to all the other memory counters available.
Visual studio is a resource hungry beast and will eventually use up all the resources available to it.
Here are some screenshots that show you the differences in the task manager:
Also, some applications have a nasty habit of not releasing resources when closed (just about any Micrsoft product out there).
Use the menu option to Exit Chrome and restart will restore all of your tabs with lower memory usage.
I highly recommend adding Commit Size to your taskman columns.
Try to delete the process and see what happens to your computer speed.
Exiting the programs should free up all of the associated memory.
However, a couple of weeks into up-time and it appears that the memory just disappears and starts using virtual memory, causing my performance to degrade.
Looks like you have multiple instances of chrome.exe running at the same time.
On a fresh start up, the amount of RAM is more than adequate for my needs.
One (or more) programs you run could have memory leaks.
However, it gets to the point where even one instance of visual studio is too much overload to handle, even after restarting visual studio.
For example, I typically have 3 instances of visual studio open, which early on in the up-time is perfectly fine.
If I worked for MS, I would make it the default, it would save many wasted hours of head scratching
To find this out, click the 'Show processes from all users' button on task manager, and see if there are a lot more processes.
If this helps, delete Google Chrome from your computer.
Commit size, IMXP, has always more closely matched the Memory meter (The old "PF Usage" on XP)
If it does not help, make sure that processes are not running from different users on your computer.
I don't know your requirements, but I would suggest rebooting at least once a week if possible.
As a side note I've noticed that web browsers (and their extensions and plugins) are often factors in these types of issues.
I have a Windows 7 Professional computer with 12GB of RAM.
That will, of course, flush your memory and free those resources.