If you want to get familiar quickly, and like installing things without much though I'd go ubuntu.
Also, it includes Nginx and PHP-FPM in the yum repos if you're looking for fast and light.
Since this question was written, Amazon completely revamped for Amazon Linux AMI 2011.09, with all the bootstrapping for CloudFormation as well as Amazon tools.
The systems I work with have largely been on the edge -- new software using new technologies and new versions.
The hard core techies insist ubuntu is not fit for live server environments because not everything is fully secure and tested.
I've used Redhat and CentOS in the past, but I have no bias towards any system, I just want to use whatever is best (I also have had partially-managed servers in the past, so I haven't done too much server administration until recently).
The website is just a web app written in PHP and MongoDB.
http://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-ami/security-bulletins/
My choice would be ubuntu as it's alot less of a headache, I've used quite a few different distros for web servers, but changing firewall rules and  things can be alot easier in ubuntu.
People would also argue the choice is between RedHat, CentOS and Debian.
You'll usually have less to worry about, as the base AMI is a bare bones server with just the tools needed to bootstrap the services you actually need.
In your case, familiarity with CentOS/RHEL probably trumps any other considerations.
The only other thing is that ubuntu is a bit more top heavy in resource usage, so CentOS may save you a few dollars a month based on the amazon method of pricing!
I tend to stay back one revision from the latest as issues tend to get worked out after a few months.
Generally, on a live web server you don't want to be able to do this kind of thing!
I recently chose Amazon Linux largely because of automatic updates, and also because of the Ubuntu AMI bug reported by Steven and Ethan in the Quora version of this question.
I like the idea of having a lightweight OS that is described for Amazon Linux, but I worry that it could suffer in compatibility/updates compared to Ubuntu or other options that have teams focused exclusively on a server OS.
For this use Ubuntu is a better choice; I avoid building packages from source code, and Ubuntu's packages are well maintained (by no means perfect, of course) and standard repositories tend to have the stuff we need, and if not, there are repositories readily available.
Although Ubuntu does better on these benchmarks, the tests themselves contribute towards Ubuntu winning, and the differences don’t seem to be big anyway.
Keep up with the latest releases here: http://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-ami/latest-release-notes/
I'm setting up my first website on Amazon EC2, and I'm trying to decide which distro to use.