I leave it to vim :help users to figure out what they do.
I've seen that there are plugins that add this, but I'm still dipping my toes into gVim and I'm not sure I want to load random plugins before I understand what they do.
I like to write tutorials and articles for a programming forum I frequent.
I've used Notepad++ in the past to write posts and it keeps a live character count in the status bar.
and you can map it to something as mentioned by mrucci.
For instance, at the end of this sentence I did a :w (yes I'm using gvim to write this note) and it reported: 245C written.
I'd prefer to use something built in to vim, but if it doesn't exist it doesn't exist.
You can use wc on linux without having to save the file first by directing the :w command output as follows:
After having this question and reading the answers (thanks mrucci) I added these lines to my .vimrc initialization file.
I found out by accident that when I :w to save the file, the command outputs the number of bytes written.
If it involves a plugin, do you use it and how well does it work?
I'm starting to use gVim more and I really don't want to go back to Notepad++ at this point, but it is very useful to have this character count.
I do like mrucci's answer as well, possibly more than this one because it has a word count too.
Workaround I've been using until I accepted mrucci's answer:
Personally I find it useful to start Vim mappings with ; or , since I rarely use them as the first character of a command.
If I go over the count, I usually end up pasting the post into Notepad++ so I can see when I've trimmed enough to get by the limit.
If you're in the habit of using :w to save the file, each time you do this the status reports back the number of characters written.
This would be great if I didn't use paragraph breaks, but I'm sure you'd agree that reading several thousand characters in one paragraph is not comfortable.
I read the help and thought that rulerformat would work, but after looking over the statusline format it uses I didn't see anything that gives a character count for the current buffer.
This is more or less a character count, so that's been close enough so far.
I've seen suggestions that :set ruler would help, but this only gives the character count via the current column index on the current line.