It also removes the requirement for the server to auto-log-in -- it can just boot up to the login screen, and your NoMachine session happens in the background.
So I have VNC on it so I can remote access it from my desk.
Then you can use ssh to log in securly into your server, without the risk of someone sniffing your login/password or someone do Man in the middle attack on you.
It's more secure -- the connection is established via SSH authentication, with your username & password on the linux machine.
If so, one solution would be to connect the machine via wired ethernet, instead of wireless.
putty is supposed to be a good ssh client for MS Windows.
You would just have to configure the machine once, and then your autologin should unlock the keyring by itself every time.
I have a ubuntu machine that is not ideal to work directly on the machine as there is no monitor,mouse, keyboard usually connected to it.
(I'm guessing 'yes' -- that would expalin the need to unlock your keyring, since wireless passwords are among the things stored in your user's login keyring.)
Download page is here -- you need to install the debs for "NX Free Edition For Linux" on the server (all three packages that it provides, in alphabetical order -- client, node, and then server package).
And I cannot VNC into it until I manually go over, hook up a keyboard, etc., enter my password.
And then you need to install "NX Client for Windows" on your windows machine.
You are supposed to be able to run different services, like remote desktop tunneling through ssh.
Then, it'll be able to get on the network (and listen for VNC connections) without needing to unlock your login keyring.
Just install the package ssh-server on your server and install a ssh-client software in your windows computer
Is there a way to set this up so I can remote access without having to go get on the machine and enter my password first?
I am not sure if you have seen this before, but GNOME has a document describing how to use PAM to unlock keyrings upon login.
You should not put yourself into the risk of being hacked by sending your login/password in clear text over your network.
http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/
I have it set to auto log into my user so I can reconnect after a restart.
Rather than VNC, I highly recommend using the free NoMachine remote desktop system.