You just have to download and install it yourself.
I think AWS should provide a nice framework for attaching EBS, mounting FS from them, etc ...
http://www.quora.com/Cloud-Management/What-is-Cloud-Management-and-what-areas-does-it-cover
I work at Scalr, an open-source cloud management software competing with RightScale and I would like to share my experience.
puppet and chef could be of some help, but that's very involved for deploying a simple LAMP application ...
Unless you need to self scale/heal/do CDN type stuff, then EC2 is absolute overkill.
Basically we provides "roles", which are AMIs with a specific behaviour.
AWS deployement usually involves writing scripts that are run at boot time on your image.
They provide a lot of scripts that allow to tailor images to your needs, dynamic dns updates, backup scripts, etc ...
RightScale provides ServerTemplates while at Scalr we handle things a bit differently.
Let's say I have a simple requirement, a web server and a database server.
For example, we provide MySQL+Centos, or MongoDB+ubuntu or whatever you want.
There are 11 Million howtos out there on setting up a lamp server.
If you want to launch a LAMP server for example, there is a role for this as well.
If you are interested to know what Cloud Management is more precisely, there is a very interesting question on Quora dealing with this:
The main thing you would have to watch for is that local disks attached to images aren't resilient.
Currently the (almost) only way i've seen to achieve that is to have your private key stored on your image, which is really far from being safe and sound.
For the setup you describe, your best bet would be to use rightscale.
If it's stopped, the data is gone, so for databases (and static website data), you'd need to add EBS to the loop, or replicate the data from S3 at boot time ...
From the previous answers, I have read some people recommend using a cloud management platform  and some other disagreeing with it.
Anyway, no matter the cloud management tool you'll use, it will solve the AMIs problem easily.
There are images available for the machine types I need already, so do I really need to worry about imaging my servers down so I can re-use them, or is it safe enough to use the pre-built images all the time?
It's also costly in comparison to less hardy alternatives.
In addition to that, cloud management softwares provides automations tools like automated backups, auto-scaling, server configuration software support (like Chef or Puppet).
Unless of course you really do need the ability to scale up replicated servers to churn data, but that is not evident from your post.
My advice would be to get a virtual server from someone like Slicehost or Linode.
I do believe cloud management softwares will help you setting up your infrastructure.
If you cannot afford a cloud management software, RightScale does provide a free account and Scalr is released under the Apache 2 License.
What are the issues that prevent a nice simple easy to manage deployment?