You can find a lot of them in internet, just search "windows privilege escalation exploit", and you'll find a lot of them...
It could escalate privileges to SYSTEM in Windows XP SP2 (and older), or Windows which version is less than 5.1.2600 (yes, it's the same WinXP SP2).
This is already a little bit old, but here it goes for future users who search for the same.
First you should enumerate your system, to get version, patches, Installed Software, Running Services, ....
In this websites, using the info I mention above that you should enumerate, you can find exploits.
Some of them you can use them directly, for example dirtyc0w exploit is very destructive, makes a lot of noise, but it gets the job done in Linux systems with certain characteristics...
Once upon a time there was an exploit kalled Kitrap0d which was exploiting a 0-day vulnerability.
If you don't, well, then you're essentially trying to subvert the security measures that having separate accounts provides in the first place.
I won't say this isn't possible, but it's certainly not something you should do unless you own the computer or have permission from the owner of the computer.
There're many exploits and vulnerabilities in different versions of Windows.
Your question is alike this: "I want to create a virus and I'd like need to gain admin privileges even if my virus was run from Guest.
If you have legitimate access to an administrative account on the system, you can run a program as that user by selecting "Run as..." from its context menu.
If the system is not completely updated, most probably, yes, you can, and there are several ways to escalate privileges, most common are, using vulnerabilities from:
Then go to an online platform of vulnerabilities, like https://www.exploit-db.com/ or https://www.cvedetails.com/.
You'll then be able to input the credentials of that admin account to run your program at the higher privilege level.
I think you're going wrong way, because if you continue like this, the next day you'll be in prison:) Be carefull, don't use it for bad purposes.