I am concerned about RAM because that's what troubles me...
SO I would just use a raspberry pi, and run ubuntu mate,
there are demos to try out of cloud computing services, but pretty much, none of them will permit you to try out GPU instances on demo accounts.
there are supercomputers built to hash and process data, built out of pi.
unless you are creating some sort of robotic cluster, that
Yes, your cluster will have access to the sum of all the processing power and RAM, but you are introducing network latency into your performance equation.
Also, the RAM on the RPi (LPDDR2) is running at 400 MHz and can be accessed at a rate of 800 MT/s, whereas a (AMD-based) desktop uses RAM (DDR3) that runs at 1066 MHz and can be accessed at a rate of 2133 MT/s, about 2.5 times faster.
The IoT, personal computers, supercomputers, servers, etc.
The general consensus is that clusters are a waste of bandwidth.
To be honest, it depends on what you are computing.
In google cloud for instance, you can have up to 8 gpu instances, for an 8 core VM instance.
All things considered, yes building a cluster of Pi's is a cool project.
the only thing that bites with that, is that app development in the cloud sucks,
there are way more powerful gpu setups, that will process graphics, and big data as well.
if you need to run xcode, because you can dream on, finding a damn MacOS image,
Many times, it's as expensive, if not way more expensive, just to add a GPU instance.
I just want to know what will be the role of cluster regarding the RAM?
So if I make a cluster of about 20 or more raspberries with each having 1 GB RAM will the end result have 20 GB RAM?
for the cloud, without purchasing your own, to upload to VMs.
Now, take all the dough you would spend to not only purchase all those raspberry pi, and all the cost of electricity, and understand that you are probably in most circumstances, better off running 1 raspberry pi.
Raspberry Pi are made to be versatile, and do a lot of different things.
Take for instance, cloud computing, and understand, that you can essentially, create clusters and supercomputers, within cloud framework.
then you should understand, that adding GPUs on google cloud, AWS, AZURE, or Bluemix, increases the price of your running instance.
I have seen bunch of articles saying how raspberries could be joined to make a cluster.
If you are focused more on RAM than CPU, you could build a RAM-heavy desktop for the same price as your Pi cluster.
If you go the AMD route (less expensive for the same performance level as Intel), you could build a desktop with 32 GB or RAM for that same dollar amount.
But if your aim is to access better performance, a desktop with better specs is a better solution.
and just connect to IBM bluemix, and or google cloud.
If you cluster, you increase the power of your setup with Pi.
I basically am a 3d artist type thing and you know rendering a 10 second animation can take hours.
and then just using that raspberry pi, to connect to cloud compute services.