I failed until recently, I thought I was doing things right, but most forum posters don't know crap, me included.
If you manually forward ports set that up before changing anything else to make sure you get them working correctly, then you can tweak everything else.
Then I learned that DNS servers and the MTU setting also make a huge difference, once i got those correct and properly setup qos....
Best mtu setting for me was 1452 but it may be different for you.
The thing is, it will play some movies, sometimes.
I would really like to have Netflix work correctly with the DD-WRT router because I do like a lot of the benefits that it gives.
But if you dig deep enough you find some from people that know what they are talking about, who actually explain why UPnP and port forwarding should not be enabled at the same time.
Basically, I have been having problems getting Netflix Streaming to play on my Xbox 360 with my DD-WRT router.
So, my overall question is, what can I do to fix this problem, to allow the Xbox 360 to connect to play all the shows from Netflix Streaming?
Now, when I attempt to use the non-DDWRT router, it will connect and play perfectly every time.
For one if port forwarding is setup then disable UPnP, don't use both at the same time.
Typically, when I attempt to play a show, it will either fully play without errors, or will not be able to load at all.
So I believe the error is somewhere in the settings of the DD-WRT.
For example, the other day, I could not get it to play Nikita, now today, it will play Nikita perfectly fine, but it is unable to play Being Human.
I use the ability to add static IP addresses to specific MAC addresses, port forwarding to those specific IP addresses, and the automated DynamicDNS integration.
I have spent numerous hours reading through forums trying to get the best setup for my xbox live.
When it doesn't load, it will load to 7%, remain there for a while, then move to 9%, then respond with an error message saying that there is an error with my home network connection.
And don't forget to set a static IP address, for my dd-wrt the lease time must be left blank