In order to have multiple servers running internally on the same external address and port, there needs to be a device in between that understands higher level HTTP requests.
The physical network consists of the 4 port DD-WRT router and an unmanaged gig switch.
I do web development out of a small office and need to have multiple physical and virtual servers that can be accessed from the internet.
This device would also have the ability to parse the domain from the URL structure and simultaneously query internal DNS servers for appropriate resolution.
I have gotten a subnet of 8 IP's from my ISP and while that is adequate for the web servers its far too small for everything that needs access to the network.
Once this happens browsers will send HTTP requests through the NAT'd gateway only to be intercepted by a reverse proxy server who then parses the domain from the headers, resolves the associated names internally and forwards the request to the correct server.
I also have a number of devices (computers, laptops, tablets, printers, etc) that need connections as well.
I would like to keep my internal network NAT'ed on the 192.168.x.x network and route the 68.69.x.x 255.255.255.248 traffic directly to the servers.
Essentially, external DNS requests are sent to your internal DNS servers on your network.
I think this problem represents an issue at a much higher level, perhaps at the application layer - rather than the routing.
There is no login or password and the router is setup to get DHCP from the ISP, and to provide DHCP addresses for the internal network.
In the end I decided I didn't even know how to ask the questions needed.
What I've done so far is google and try different configurations with little success.
I have a fiber connection to the office that works as an Ethernet port.
I'm just smart enough about this routing topic to be dangerous, think 2 year old with a magic marker.
In other words I can plug my laptop directly into it and have access to the internet.
I've never had to configure a router using anything more than the GUI so if this is command line stuff be gentle.