But, what if instead of duplicating the email 50 times, it only creates the one email and gives permissions to 50 people to view it.
The only difference is that there's only one instance of the message that many people have access to instead of many instances of the message where only one person has access to each instance.
Is there something like this that exists for Exchange?
I'm not an Exchange SME by any means, so please forgive my ignorance.
Does Exchange have different methods of handling email other than delivering a copy of an email to each mailbox it's intended for?
Deleting a message from someone's inbox doesn't actually delete the message, but instead just removes the link to the message from the user's mailbox.
Its called Office365 - Exchange online and OneDrive.
A user's mailbox no longer stores emails, but instead just stores links to emails.
You could also implement an inbound-and-outbound 3rd-party large-file-attachment service if you're concerned about sizing storage.
If I need to search Exchange for an email sent from a specific outside sender with a specific subject with a specific attachment, I'd have to search across the entire enterprise, through every single mailbox to find all remnants of that email.
This could cut down email storage and bandwidth and improve Exchange administration exponentially.
To the user, everything is still the same: an email pops up in their inbox and they can forward and delete it, move it to a different folder, create rules, etc.
The attachments are stored in the cloud and then links sent around.
For example, if I want 50 people to receive an email that has a 5mb attachment, 50 copies of the email will be created and distributed to all mailboxes, which will generate 250MB of traffic and 250MB of required storage.
However, with this other method, I'd just have to search the one database to see if the email exists.
I could delete the email entirely, or just delete all the links to it so that it still exists, but doesn't show up in anyone's "mailbox" so that I can grab a copy of it and do some forensics on the attachment.