If you are only serving people in the UK and in New Zealand for example, a single location in the US may be good enough for both.
Many CDNs offer services that can speed up dynamic content as well through various tricks but that's not what you're after.
For the second problem, a CDN may not be a good choice if your sites is almost completely dynamic.
For the database problem, something as simple as multi-master replication may be all you need.
There is no easy answer to this as there are too many variables that need to be considered.
The volume of data, the capabilities of the database server software, the reliability of the connection between the two sites, how much data actually needs to be shared between sites, if the data needs to be always exactly the same, or eventually the same..
A CDN isn't for 'image and video delivery', it's primarily for static content delivery (image and videos being a subset of that, any web page that's not being served up dynamically, javascript files, css files, etc.)
I'm aware of two main ways a CDN and large organizations can handle a situation like this.
From my desk at work in San Jose, CA it's less than a quarter of a second to both New Zealand and Australia (< 250ms).
I don't know what your application does, but if the few milliseconds difference is going to make a meaningful impact on your user you may want to rethink the design.
The second being how you route users to your servers.
That may be based on the client's IP addres such as looking up in a geolocation database or another mechanism to determine what is best to direct the client to.
The first is how you should architect your multi-site database structure.
If you want my opinion, pick a location that has decent connectivity to the locations you'd like to serve.
You have several different issues here that would probably be better served as separate questions.
The first is through DNS, using some sort of mechanism to determine what IP address to return to a client.
The idea here is that you announce the exact same IP addresses from multiple locations, and rely on standard internet routing to get you to a close site (close being relative to the network, not geography).