Microsoft did want to allow some people to be able to download an ISO of their version of Windows, but Microsoft also believes they should be the ones to decide who should, and should not be downloading their OS.
You'll spend between $10 and $40 for their recovery discs, which will include the original OS that was shipped with the laptop... providing they still have them.
So, although I won't violate any laws with links, I can tell you that you can take your chances on the bittorrent circuits, and search for a Windows XP Pro OEM ISO.
-In that case, you should use the images that are hosted by Digital River (or purchase one of MS's license agreements and, thus, gain access to Microsoft's Volume Licensing Service Center where you'll probably get to download the image files that you are entitled to).
And the end-user will be happy having that physically in their storage.
However, it would be clever to visit the manufacturer's site and see if there are any recovery disk images available for your specific laptop model.
You don't want one that is pre-activated, or comes with a crack or a hack.
Again, if you're posting here, you're not Googling enough, or too antsy about getting tools where you need to.
Are all these links still available on the internet somewhere?
"Since you are talking about using the key on the COA sticker on the bottom of the laptop, you are talking about an OEM installation (as opposed to a Retail installation... it makes a difference).
I have been given a laptop with the following characteristics:
If that got blown-away (possibly by you prior to posting here),
-You can activate a corresponding retail version of Windows with your OEM activation key (it just has to be the corresponding version of Windows).
If you decide to use a retail version of Windows, it is recommended that you download all the necessary drivers for your laptop and copy them on a USB stick or burn them on a CD so that you can get online etc.
You just have to have a lot of patience to find them for your specific laptop model.
Were they freely available for everyone to download?
As such, the key you're seeing is a broad key that will not work for a re-install.
As a last resort, you could contact Microsoft directly... but the chances are great they are going to tell you that they cannot and/or will not assist you... and they will just attempt to sell you a copy of Windows 8.
Sometimes people forget to download all the appropriate drivers for their Ethernet card, and they cannot get online after installing Windows.
Since you are talking about using the key on the COA sticker on the bottom of the laptop, you are talking about an OEM installation (as opposed to a Retail installation... it makes a difference).
Your issue is not that you can't find the image to download... your issue is assuming that you should be able to download it, and that it should be available for download.
I mean Microsoft wanted to be very specific about who they gave permission to/the ability to.
Was it was possible to get hold of a link and download one of these ISOs?
Most manufacturers have a reinstall partition, bootable by a key-sequence at the right time during boot.
I'm not talking about the broad sense of the decision...
And, you won't be spending $100 or $200 by going to the manufacturer.
I am not very familiar with the XP stuff but I need to install on it fresh windows copy and have the following questions:
Buy the image/CD from the manufacturer for that model.
You can also contact the manufacturer of the laptop (Via their Support web site) and request to purchase the recovery media for that model laptop.
The OS that was replaced by Vista... that was replaced by Windows 7... that was replaced by Windows 8.
You won't be able to use a Windows XP Pro Retail ISO with that product key."
Did Microsoft allow DigitalRiver.com to host the ISO files for XP, Vista, and Windows 7 ISOs?
You won't be able to use a Windows XP Pro Retail ISO with that product key.