The chainsaw might make a good deal of sense, depending.
60GHz WiFi works a bit more like this - more truly penetrating - though without losing all the beneficial diffractionness at that frequency.
The lower the frequency the better the penetration (Ignoring super high frequencies like X-RAY).
However, in most cases, were not interested in the sea/water analogy because we want our signal not to continue indefinteky through one uniform media - but to go around corners, pass from air into a door and out again etc.
For best diffraction, you want a wavelength comparable with the obstacle you're trying to avoid.
Typically, higher frequencies have better penetration through solid objects, but have shorter range than lower frequencies.
(An extreme example, I believe submarines use extremely low frequencies for communication.
If the camera connects only by WiFi you'll need a 2.4 or 5 GHz access point at the end of a 900 MHz point to point link.
I plan on using some large directional antennas to help me get the range I need.
Of "easily available, off the shelf" gear, 900 MHz is the choice for woods-fi.
If you start shifting to much higher frequencies, you reduce this eggectm in fact, someone mentioned x-rays - at higher and higher frequencies the energy becomes more particle like - high energy penetrating particles like x Ray photons.
A door or tree for that matter is around a metre across.
Because of this, the water /whale/sonar penetration aspect is not the prime factor by far.
Ps the poster above correctly identifies that 900MHz will get through the trees (because of diffraction) but is mistaken rre:.the dirt comment - it won't get round hills because of the size of a hill - a lower wavelength like normal lw rf would do that.
The 900M isn't penetrating the trees it's diffractibg - so the penetration into dirt is nowt to do with it.
So you can see how far away from this ideal the available frequencies are.
If you can open up a clear line of sight (including at least 60% of the "Fresnel zone", basically a cigar-shaped space that's pointy at your antennas and fat in the middle), 5 GHz stuff works dandy, and is a LOT cheaper (and smaller) than 900 MHz.
If it has an ethernet port, you can just plug it into the 900 MHz radio at that end.
Thus a 2.4 gig connection will be better then a 5 gig connection - although neither will be particularly good.
It is the diffraction that's the more relevant physical effect.
I would suggest getting devices that support both, so that you can play with the settings.
But it starts to get more penetrating in the sense it will pass from air to tree trunk and out again without much deviation.
Normally if a radio wave passes from air into eg a wall or other media the effect is that it's attenuated and it's direction is changed.
If you are trying to use "off-the-shelf" 2.4 gig gear, look into gear with MIMO (multiple antennas).
If you don't need a lot of bandwidth, try something on 900 MHZ or even lower if you can get the gear.
Is 5ghz or 2.4ghz better at penetrating the trees and leaves?
A decade or more back I had a super-duper 900 MHz phone that would go 1/2 mile through trees, so long as it was only trees, not dirt (it didn't go through dirt, so a hill in the way meant it didn't work.)
This limits there bandwidth, but gives them a large range through water.
This corresponds to a similar wavelength and a frequency of around 300 MHz or 0.3 GHz.
However, lower frequencies (really it's their longer wavelength that's responsible but there is an inverse relation between the two) also duffract - or spread out around - obstacles better.
http://www.proxim.com/products/knowledge-center/calculations/calculations-fresnel-clearance-zone#feet
Rather expensive in comparison to 2.4 & 5 GHz gear, but if anything (other than a chainsaw) is going to punch through trees, that will be the one.
This is most of the reason long wave radio can be picked up over much further differences.
The other aspect is a different kind of penetration.
The trees are going to provide a lot of reflections, and using MIMO gear you may be able to filter some of it out - although a lot of it will be absorbed - particularly by the water content in the trees.
You've lost all the benfucual diffraction effects (as just mentioned if you think about it) and it's much more a line of sight affair.
So within one media eg water longer wavelength/ lower frequency is more penetrating and there is an 'obstacle avoiding' (as opposed to penetrating) aspect to lower frequencies too.
For "a few hundred feet" at 5 GHz, the Fresnel zone is only 8-10 feet in diameter at the fattest.
Here's a calculator (just one I found, no affiliation, you'll have to express the distance in fractional miles.)
Lower frequencies will have more range/penetration within solid objects - water is best thought of as solid in this context - this explains the whales and sonar touched upon above.
I'd like to install a wireless ip camera near the back of my property.
Thankfully, diffraction depletes for a higher wavelength than the obstacle; for much lower it disappears.
You have to separate the concepts of penetration (e.g.