You can do this in C#, but you'll likely need to P/Invoke a lot of the functionality you'd need.
Of course this doesn't always work; sometimes you'll only find a display value and not the real representation of health (which may be stored as a float from 0 to 1 instead of an integer from 1 to 100) in which case modifying that integer won't really impact game play at all -- you'd still die, you'd just have a full health meter when you did so.
Once you have that initial set, you change the value you are looking for -- get hit, for example, so you now have 94 hit points.
You can eventually narrow down the address in question this way.
Practically speaking you're probably much better off simply using an existing tool or contributing to an open source project oriented at making one, because the way you've phrased your question honestly makes it sound like you aren't ready for this kind of project.
C or C++ is probably more well-suited to the task -- you'll have fewer hoops to jump through.
Games and technology vary wildly, and what works for one will usually not work for others.
Once you've found it the first time, you may be able to rely on the fact that it will be located at a fixed offset from the load address of the program, but this will only be true for a very small subset of the data manipulated by any given program.
You will likely need to relocate the variable in memory every time.
By reading the disassembled machine code of the program, you may eventually be able to locate how it modifies a particular variable.
This is generally a very complex topic and the above is only a very naive, superficial overview.
I think you are biting off way more than you can chew here, but the basic (naive) premise here is that you have to scan the process memory for a value that matches the one you are after -- if you have 100 hit points, you start walking the entire thing looking for values of 100 (as 8, 16 and 32 bit values) and keeping track of the addresses you find.
There are a few open source "cheat engine" projects out there you can look at for a better idea of what you're going to have to do.
Then you scan the addresses you found before to see which ones are now 94.