Apt now comes with its own cron job /etc/cron.daily/apt and documentaion is found in the file itself:
Just install apticron and change the EMAIL= setting in /etc/apticron/apticron.conf
I prefer dedicating a little bit of time to this than to have my mail server go away suddenly and not come back up automatically.
I like upgrades to be done when I'm around have time to clean things up if it goes wrong.
There's always a chance that an apt-get upgrade will break something, or require some user input.
My advice: yes, get the security updates automatically.
I would recommend upgrading anytime you see something high priority or greater - but I also don't like to wait until there are 30 or 40 upgrades to perform - because then if something breaks it's harder to narrow-down exactly which package broke your system.
For me, the risk to break the application is very low, much lower than being hacked by running versions with well known vulnerabilities.
"aptitude update; aptitude dist-upgrade (or aptitude safe-upgrade)"
It will send you a mail with the updates that is pending.
Also, depending on what packages you are running on your LAMP server, you may want to add the debian volitile and/or dotdeb repositories to your repository list, since they keep much more on top of patches and virus pattern updates than debian's standard repos do.
If you don't want to deal with security bulletins decide how long you are comfortable between checking for updates and just decide to do updates every week.
apticron is a good package to do this for you, or you could just make a cron job that executes something like:
I went on vacation around Christmas when a worm was released that exploited a known vulnerability in the distribution (don't remember which one).
I had a dedicated Debian server about 4 years ago, without automated updates.
I would recommend that you configure apt to check for updates daily, but to only notify you that they are available, and not perform them until you are around.
Apticron will check for the latest updates and download them.
When I returned from vacation, my server was hacked.