If you want to know what happened, that's the place to look.
I've also set up custom SNMP MIBs in the past, which you could put the timestamp of the last time that particular cronjob has run.
If the PushMon URL doesn't get called because the machine is off, or cron failed to run (it happens), or your script fails, PushMon will alert you by 3:30 AM.
I'm thinking right now of setting up a database table that stores last run timestamps for each cron command and we get weekly report for the cron commands.
If you really feel like you need a second tool keeping an eye on cron, there's a perl package (Schedule::Cron) that you could use to regularly check your heartbeat.
cron does a good job of logging every command that it runs, along with errors.
The tool is free for individual monitors and paid plans are available for those with multiple monitoring needs.
Although, if you're really that worried about cron dying, you might want to look into rebuilding or replacing your machine.
I built a simple tool for this type of monitoring - https://cronitor.io
Start with reviewing and/or monitoring /var/log/cron.log (or wherever your cron logs are going).
Or possibly storing in the database when it should run and when it last ran, if there's a problem it'd email us.
The "emailing" would be done by our internal systems where our employees are consistently logging in so it wouldn't be based off of cron itself.
It allows you to set both intervals (every 24 hours) and durations (greater than 10 minutes, less than 2 minutes, etc), and then receive email/SMS alerts if your cron job (or any other automated task) doesn't run according to the rules you defined.
Then "ping" the PushMon URL when your script runs successfully.
I realize that when any cron has output it will email that output... what I'm trying to determine is that if I have a script scheduled for 3 AM on Tuesday and for whatever reason it either throws an error or fails to run, I'd like to know...
If you're worried about cron dying, you can setup a cron'ed heartbeat that just logs every 5 minutes, and if you don't see the heartbeat, send some sort of alert.
Have your syslogs forward to your monitoring system, and then set up alerts within your monitoring system.
Alternately, you could just use some sort of system monitoring tool (SNMP, Nagios, Hobbit/BigSister, etc) to externally monitor that the cron process is running.
You can use PushMon and create a URL with a "by 3:30 AM every Tue" schedule.
cron should be pretty reliable, and if it's failing, it's probably a symptom of a bigger problem.
I think monitoring syslog would be the easiest solution.
If you're that worried about the local machine's reliability, you can also send the logs to a second machine for monitoring/processing/alerting/etc.
You can get alerted by email, SMS, phone, IM or Twitter, and the service is free.
Your solution sounds a little more complicated than I think it needs to be.
Then some external system could monitor that snmp MIB for a timestamp older than 24 hours.