Now the default location of a pagefile in Windows is on the main OS drive, be it HDD or SSD, which are faster in general, but still not as fast as RAM.
Although, I cannot say that there was any performance boost, my system seems to be running more stable.
Having the page file in RAM is next to useless, since it may be lost in the crash.
My system has 24GB's of RAM, for this reason, I disabled the pagefile to prevent wear on my SSD without having any issues.
In practice however, flawed design and philosophy can make it into even the Windows kernel, and Microsoft's management of memory is not necessarily perfect.
I compiled a post which shows a collection of such users from a single forum's thread who have found that despite having massive amounts of RAM free, the pagefile is still being used:
The OS includes the needed frameworks to run the included maintenance software, which is identical to the utilities available after install.
Modern Macs have a recovery partition - part of the main drive with a stripped-down OS that can repair or restore the main system.
For more information, see the Microsoft article Understanding Crash Dump Files.
I tried both, but I couldn't analyze the results to reach a definite conclusion with my knowledge level in memory things.
http://www.overclock.net/t/1193401/why-it-is-bad-to-store-the-page-file-on-a-ram-disk/290#post_23508589
I have see a marked increase in performance from this experiment.
Many have found that putting the pagefile into a Ramdisk does indeed result in a performance increase, as long as you have a decent amount of memory.
Something tells me that disabling the pagefile on the hard drive or creating a virtual RAM drive and letting the pagefile be there could make Windows move all its virtual memory to RAM, and so increase the system's performance, but I'm not very knowledgeable in that area, so that might not be true at all.
In theory, putting the pagefile into RAM should make no sense at all, because you're just depleting what you supposedly gain, and Windows is built on the assumption that the pagefile won't be used for such purposes.
Converting an OS that was designed at it's very core to not use swap is a lot harder than it sounds.
Since I had more space available on my RAM Disk, I enabled my pagefile and set both minimum, and maximum size to 1GB, and moved it to the RAM Disk.
Limiting the system to one application at a time means the ramdisk-swap basically never gets used, but the OS expects it to be there.
If you don't have a page-file, then in case of a BSOD (crash) Windows won't be able to write the crash dump file.
In the DVD-installer days they ran a custom process, the system now creates a RAMdisk  for the swap partition as an installer can't be guaranteed to have working disk space available.
I recently created a RAM Disk, using 4GB's of my Memory to store Google Chrome Cache files, just to see if it would increase the performance of online Flash Player games, and general web surfing.
This means that you won't be able to analyze the problem by using the appropriate tools.