When it was done it said Trigger II drivers installed.
I also followed the information provided by Juha and found that the Super Utility application was running and had shortcuts created for moving windows among my monitors.
I opened control panel, programs and features, and found the Trigger II driver program.
If the window isn't full and it is already on the main display, it will snap the window to the center.
See Super Utility and then rather than disable, just change the Hotkey Setting to CTRL and in the window to the right add a key you never use, like the dash key.
If I press 2 (again, non-num pad), it will move my window to my secondary.
They used a Startech USB to DVI adapter to drive the third monitor.
I plugged the adapter back into the USB port and it started installing software.
It said the manufacturer was Startech, so I uninstalled the drivers.
I had the option there to Disable, so maybe that will prevent this from happening again when I reboot next.
I finally discovered that I could drive the third monitor using the VGA port which eliminated the Startech adapter but I still had the problem.
I think Startech must have a bug in their software.
If I press 1 (non-num pad), it will move my window to my main display.
Click the plus sign (+) next to “USB settings” and “USB selective suspend setting” to expand the options and change the setting to Disabled.
Now, when you hit the 1 key which you use all the time, nothing will happen.
Like I said, it doesn't happen right when I boot up.
Click Change plan settings for the plan you want to change.
I started having the problem where I would press the number 1 key and it would jump to screen one.
**May need to unplug and plug back in the StarTech USB
Another StarTech user here (3 monitors) 1 using USB StarTech converter.
Click Hardware and Sound, then click Power Options.
It's getting relatively annoying to have to follow my 1 and 2 keystrokes with a 1 and 2 to switch everything back.
I had the exact same issue and pressing the Ctrl key once seemed to "un-sticky" the key.
Now, this doesn't happen right at boot up, but once it starts, it doesn't stop until I reboot.
After I uninstalled the Trigger II drivers the problem disappeared for good.
I started having a problem after our IT department set me up with a third monitor.
I generally kicks in a few hours after I've been using them with no problem.