The tp-link connects via wireless to the dynalink, and acts as gateway for the ethernet clients.
As Dagelf mentions, WDS between different vendors is usually broken.
And use the tp-link as your wireless bridge using pseudobridge with relayd (google it, I don't have enough reputation for another link)
There are several different ways to implement the functionality required in the firmware, each with it's own cocktail of peculiarities; the standards on these things aren't very clearly written and usually up to the whims of the firmware engineers at the vendor.
Although I found a simple routed client easier to setup and more stable, YMMV:
You can either do masquerading or not for this subnetwork.
"Repeater mode" is likely not WDS, but some other form of wireless client mode.
Based on your diagram, it looks like the Dynalink should act as a client bridge, not a WDS bridge.
The stock firmware on the Dynalink may not support client bridge mode, so consider a third-party firmware like DD-WRT or OpenWRT.
What might work for you is flashing openWRT to your tp-link router and using the dynalink on your lan border (i.e.
Basically what you do is create a separate subnetwork for your bridged hosts.
If you don't masquerade, you have to make sure that the dynalink has a route back to the new subnetwork and that it does nat for it as well.
I have no experience with Dynalink - it's quite likely that what their menu item calls WDS is in fact not WDS and rather some esoteric bridge mode.
Quite often WDS implementations between different vendors are broken - or even between different models of the same vendor (as is the case with TP-Link).
WDS mode is usually a checkbox setting at the bottom of the wireless settings when you're in pure AP (Access Point) mode.
On the downside, it's less transparent and breaks any lan service that depends on broadcast.
If anyone else is looking for an answer, I believe the solution was posted at another forum here.
I have the exact same setup I described and it works like a charm.