If not, is there a way to accomplish what I'm talking about?
For port 80 if one of the machines is running apache2 (and online all the time) you can use proxy pass to fowrward win.example.com to the (internal) ip of your iis server
It implements proxying capability for FTP, CONNECT (for SSL), HTTP/0.9, HTTP/1.0, and HTTP/1.1.
Yes it is possible - you can use two accounts as an example on the server side and that would work just fine.
In the past, I've simply made one machine available via router-based dynamic DNS support and port-forwarding.
(taken from the Using Virtual_host and mod_proxy together example at http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/vhosts/examples.html)
There are plenty of free ddns providers to choose from such as those at:
And I can't be certain that a single Dynamic DNS provider would support it (you might have to use two, like noip.org and dyndns.org (I think they are organizationally different).
What you end up with is two names pointing to the same IP.
Put another way, the Dynamic DNS clients are JUST pointing an IP to a name and don't care how your router is configured or what services are available on your systems.
Is there a way to run a daemon on each machine rather than on the router and effectively have one machine accessible via a.mydynamicdns.com and the other via b.mydynamicdns.com?
Since your router can only forward one port to one IP, it won't matter - if you forward RDP to one name and VNC to another, for example, BOTH names will respond to both requests, but only the PCs where the ports are forwarded to will answer.
Here's the deal: I have multiple machines on my network which I'd like to make externally accessible via a dynamic DNS service.
The reason I ask is because it would seem that this would be impossible, due to the fact that  both machines share the same public-facing IP address (which is dynamic).
The module can be configured to connect to other proxy modules for these and other protocols."
Use account 1on machine A and account 2 on machine B.
Mod_proxy is advertised as "This module implements a proxy/gateway for Apache.