Best of all there is a free eval version that will be fine for the one occasion you need to use it.
If everything goes well you will get the exact environment as a virtual machine that you will be able to use on the new system.
CloneZilla(i link to wiki as the site is down at the moment), or NortonGhost may be of use here, although there will be an element of risk involved.
Run snapshot and you can restore the snapshot onto the new laptop.
Some (not all) P2V migration tools will do this for you, but most just instruct you how to prepare the system for the migration manually.
When Snapshot restores the image it can grow it to use whatever size disk you have in the new laptop.
snapshot the disk to itself; sounds odd but it works).
Besides this note, I agree with Zoredache about migrating it to a virtual machine as a starter.
It's not particularly hard, but things can go wrong especially in the partition resizing department.
Unless the applications in question require special hardware-level access, you might want to always run this as a virtual machine on whatever new hardware and operating system you get in the future as well - instead of trying to image this thing to all new machines directly.
Please note that if this is Windows we're talking about - before you do the image, reset the disk controller driver to a generic ata or sata one - or it will bluescreen on new hardware (including virtual hardware) requiring advanced and often unsupported recovery procedures.
I suggest you make a trial run (in a non important disk/machine) if you have the time an resources to do so.
You may be better getting this done professionally in order to avoid data loss unless you are entirely comfortable with what you are doing.
Assuming you have enough disk space on the old laptop you can snapshot the old C: drive to a file on the drive (i.e.
It will be much easier then trying to adapt an existing install to a new system since you will have the aide of the p2v software built to make the transition easy.
Booting off a CD and connecting to the old laptop is easy for long time network nerds like me, but can be daunting for the beginner.
You might want to consider installing something like Vmware or something on your new system and then do a P2V (Physical to Virtual) of the old system.
If you run into problems doing it post here and I'll try and help.
Now boot the new laptop of a WinPE or BartPE CD and map a drive to the C: disk on the old laptop.
Re jacobsse's comment, see http://www.ratsauce.co.uk/notablog/WinPECD.asp for my walkthrough of making a WinPE boot CD.
Also you will be able to use newer software on the newer host system without having to break the VM.