When Windows finally decides to unfreeze after about 15 seconds up to several minutes, all my previous actions get executed.
I reseated all sata cables and voila, no more Event 153's and quick boot.
(Though I'm pretty sure that this wouldn't solve the problem either)
Doing some more research (as described in this article), I found out that the warnings only occur while writing onto the SSD as the last bytes in the details for each event 153 that I've checked are 00 (SCSISTAT_GOOD), 04 (SRB_STATUS_ERROR) and 2A (SCSIOP_WRITE).
I also had another symptom - when booting Windows 10 in EFI mode, I was getting random "corrupt winload.efi" error.
I only booted few times, but the error is now gone and boot is much faster.
I was experiencing many of these event errors (thousands per day), PC was lagging a lot.
I can still move my mouse cursor while it is locked up, but if I click on something nothing happens.
If I'm just reading from it, everything is normal (average response time of about 0.1 to 0.2 milliseconds).
My drive is Samsung SSD 840 and apparently its SATA port does not have the holes so cables will not "clip" therefore it can easily loose when you are working in the case and touching cables.
Right now I'm totally out of ideas what I could try next to resolve the problem I'm experiencing.
This is not the first time I experienced loose SATA data cable, this port design has a serious issue.
I replaced the cable, made sure it is connected properly (yeah DUCK TAPE I am looking at you!)
In control panel power options,  I chose changes settings for the plan selected, then chose  reset  the balanced power option to the default.
I.  replacing the 2006 microsoft  SATA ACPI controller , with an Intel 7 series chipset family  SATA AHCI Controller, as recommended on the  dell website.
Samsung Magician benchmark showed poor 76 MB/s read performance.
in April this year I bought a new Samsung SSD 750 EVO 250GB, installed it on my desktop pc and made a fresh installation of Windows 10.
Did I just get a faulty SSD and should therefore send it in for an RMA?
Not sure if this is helpful, but I had bad SATA cable or loose SATA cable connection.
However, since I got this SSD, Windows will randomly lock up on some occassions.
And under Hard Disk , turn off hard disk , entered 'Never' under plugged in.
As the block address changes from every event to another, I'm pretty sure that it isn't a failing block.
I also found out that the average response time (according to the task manager) of my SSD can be as high as 20 seconds (not milliseconds) while writing onto it, though it's mostly at about 500 milliseconds while writing.
What I've done so far (however none of the following has neither helped to resolve the problem nor given me some more information of what to do):
So I believe I fixed both issues at once (slow boot with random blue-screen error, event 153).
and everything is so smooth, no more 153 events anymore and benchmark went up in reading to 540 MB/s.
About last week, when I looked into the event viewer of Windows for the first time since I installed it, I noticed that it is full of events with ID 153 (from one every few minutes to several per minute), which state that an I/O operation had to be retried on my SSD.
For my Dell Inspirion laptop, that had been upgraded to Win 10 with a G-skill 240gb  ssd,   was able to solve this by
From time to time I can also find events with ID 129, which state that it had to reset my SSD.
I am wondering if I could have just done II.. but I had already done I.
I discovered that a sata cable, though it has a locking mechanism, was somehow cocked to one side ever so slightly.