Basically you just need a firewall between the two with really tight rules, basically something called a 'Deny all' rule and then just allow a single one way point to point single port outgoing rule for what you need.
This is how many installations perform air gaps in network servers.
Have the servers continually append outgoing emails to a file, and every so often rename the file, copy it on a USB key, and drop it in an incoming folder on the other server.
Of course, the sending (offline) system would have no idea if they actually went out or not.
On the online side, only allow the smtp connection to the mail server.
A small hole in the firewall which only allows traffic on port 25 to pass from a specific IP address in your offline network to a specific IP address in your online network should do the trick perfectly.
On the offline side, only allow connections to this box to dump messages to send via your custom app.
If they've gone to the trouble of separate networks, they've probably also gone to the trouble of installing a firewall.
If it's too important to delay, it can be sent from one of the outside clients.
I would just have two mail servers, an internal and an external.
If you wanted to implement the requirements to the letter, you could use a one-way IP link that sent its emails via UDP (or a similar unidirectional protocol) to a custom daemon that listened for these packets and sent them out via SMTP to the intended recipient.
You could do the same very cost effectively with a single dual-homed box with software firewall running on each interface but having things separated out will create several additional layers of protection and would be preferable.
This is easy for a security/network guy and should be satisfactory for your client.
I wouldn't exactly call them paranoid, and I applaud their attitude to security.
If they've gone to this extent to separate the networks, there should be two firewalls in place here with a mail-enabled box in the middle.
For this acknowledgement to happen, you need a minimal firewall setup as Ben and Chopper3 have answered.