I have a few points, some of which duplicate what others have said but are
I'm not keen on system("cls") as a way of clearing the screen, but on Windows, it works.
This seems a bit better already :) But I think it would still be better to move the text to .txt files
You don't initialize any of P, L or Choice (so they contain indeterminate garbage), but you compare Choice with P and if they're equal, you call main() once more; if Choice is equal to L, you exit with success (which is good), and otherwise you return.
argv); and use a loop in main, calling a function that does the guts of your
Sorry to be negative, but you are on the wrong tracks completely and are
You don't need the trailing blanks at the end of each line of the 'end of game' message.
You'd probably want to upshift what the user typed, too.
Calling srand() resets the random number sequence and thus makes the next number not so random.
Your main program should have a loop which invokes the game (a function call), and then calls the end() function to get the choice from the user.
If you really want to keep the text in the code, you could move the print lines to separate functions to clean it up.
Presumably, you needed a prompt such as 'Play again (P) or Leave (L):' and then you need to get input for which 'P' and 'L' are possible inputs.
But it seems to me like you could move the text to txt files or xml files, instead of literally placing it in your code.
If the choice is 'P', then you loop and play the game again; otherwise, you exit the loop and then the whole program.
starting with a main, which has the prototype int main(int argc, char **
You could probably walk through the txt file and print the text in a loop, rather than each line on its own.
While it is possible in C (but not C++) to call main() again, it is aconventional to do so.
I don't know any C, so I can't comment on the actual code.
buyitem() is verbose and terminating comment is just noise:
I'm bailing out there - you really need to start again.
Write a litte bit at a time, compile it, test it, if there is anything wrong with it, fix it.