But on the other hand, it has a single, system-wide desktop manager (Finder), program launchers (Dock, Spotlight), and package installer (Installer).
Also, there is much more flexibility as far as file systems, so I can play around with distributed filesystems (like hadoop).
I was spending considerably less time futzing around with the Linux machines.
My home windows boxes were always requiring attention for virus scans, software crashes, malware removal, semi-annual wipe and rebuilds etc.
Also I find that for securing servers freeBSD works wonderfully with the bsd jails.
There is some software, though, that wasn't ported to Windows or done in such an unusable way that it's better to natively use on a UNIX-like OS.
Plus there is so many sources of freeware and shareware available, it's hard not to go with it.
Now, unless my family has a very specific need, new computers in my house always run Linux exclusively.
My laptop and general workstation are Ubuntu, however when it comes to my servers I tend to go with freeBSD.
Being an open system, Linux makes it easier for you to understand how it works.
There are some Solaris and Irix boxes kicking around in the rack as well.
In times where most people can easily get their hands on pirated copies of software, cost is usually not a very large issue, so I don't consider that a very valid argument for most individuals (corporations or people caring more about buying software are exempt, though).
Being a curious geek type I played around with Linux at home.
However, I consider some UNIX alternatives to tools I use daily to be inferior to the ones I am using right now—at least for my uses and habits; this includes Far and Windows PowerShell.
I'm a Windows user proficient with command line tools and a software developer.
In addition having the source code for the kernel is great since I can learn about device drivers, kernels, and systems software.
Also it is much easier to build clusters for writing distributed code in linux.
To me it's not a way of living but rather something to get done what I want to get done and the tools I choose aren't particularly based on ideological reasons.
No matter how I (or my teen-aged children) abused them the Linux boxen just kept on ticking.
A preference for freedom often leads to choosing Linux or BSD.
I find that linux/BSD systems are much easier to develop on.
For myself, I use OS X. I love it because it is a multi-user system, because it was build on the BSD UNIX system.
After a few years of toying with GNU\LINUX and letting my family use both I noticed something very interesting.
The main benefit of being a Linux user over a Windows user is knowing the answer to the question you asked in the first place :-)
I never was very comfortable with UNIX-like operating systems.
There is still root command line support when I need it.
Choice of software availability is a common reason, though usually for choosing Windows.