I can see the actual linux drive loaded in disk manager, but windows doesnt read linux file systems so im confused as to how to access the linux drive if this is possible.
1) My linux image is around 80gb, do i need to take this into consideration?
I would recommend Sun Virtualbox to run your VM's.
It's much more risky when the Lx partition is on the same disk with Windows.
http://lifehacker.com/how-to-dual-boot-and-virtualize-the-same-partition-on-y-493223329
As im having problems understanding how this is done, I would really appreciate a step by step guide (for a newbie), or any simple tutorials that you can point me at.
4) Or will i need to do the whole p2v conversion inside linux?
I have two OS's installed on different drives in my PC.
If you want to stick with windows virtualisation technology then I recommend the following guide to convert your existing disk into a VHD file: http://blogs.technet.com/b/enterprise_admin/archive/2010/05/13/linux-p2v-with-dd-and-vhdtool-easy-and-cheap.aspx
I would very much like to use Windows 7 as my host OS and access my linux OS from within Windows.
Its getting tiresome to constantly have to stop and restart the PC when I want to use either OS.
However, im having trouble deciphering exactly how to do this (many of the articles seem confusing and a bit overkill)
I have great experience running it as a desktop VMM for both Ubuntu and Windows (Vista and 7).
As for converting, I would probably just recreate the environment, and copy the files.
Linux P2V you can use http://www.madness.at/blog/2008/10/p2v-with-mondo-rescue.html and for Win you can use symantec backup tool which 30 days trail both tools are very easy to use any one can
3) Is it possible to do the P2V conversion while I am logged into windows.
All my other drives are NTFS non writeable in linux (as I use them in windows and ntfs is dodgy in linux), so probably not possible to move the image over to my ntfs drives
A nice feature in Virtualbox is the shared folders, which lets you keep the datafiles on the host FS, reducing the VM filesize and simplifying the entire experience.
From what i have seen its possible to use VMWare converter to convert the physical linux image to a virtual image so that I can use it in windows.
I have used this method several times and it is fairly painless.
Once your done simply create a new VM and attach the VHD.
http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch09.html#rawdisk
2) Can I just zip the linux files up somehow and transfer it to windows to create the p2v?
You can create a vmdk image that uses what they call "raw hard disk access."
VirtualBox would be good in the special case you have, where linux is on its own disk.