You might want to try using another antivirus program and that's ok, but don't have high hopes.
Keep in mind that even by using the BEST Antivirus might find what you're infected from, but the disinfection is NOT 100% guaranteed.
People working with sensitive data or inside networks where sensitive data is held should strongly consider wipe and re-install.
 3. the best/faster/most effective way to get rid off an infection, is to format you disk drive and make a clean installation of your operating system.
 2. keep a backup of your files (make sure that they're not infected too) and make sure to get rid of all the infected files in your computer even if this means to delete them.
(KAspersky internet Security, McAfee, Avast, etc etc).
People whose time is valuable should strongly consider wipe and re-install (it's quickest and easiest and surest method).
it could be nothing that the user could understand in a terms of performance or any other way, in these cases without 100% accuracy could see something in task manager running and he has no clue what it is, or how it came being there... but there are cases that the computers perfomance go poor, programs running slower, or not at all, or whatever... the symptoms really vary and there are cases that an infection could be obvious almost without a second thought, there are cases that is way hard to understand even that something goes wrong.
all depends from what you're infected from (virus, trojan, name it as you wish) and mostly from the distaster that caused from it.
Some of it is really difficult to find, and very hard to remove.
People who are not comfortable with advanced tools should strongly consider wipe and re-install.
This is because your security has already failed, and if it failed for a simple malware maybe you're already infected with a vicious malware.
But even if you have a mild malware you should strongly consider reformating and reinstalling the OS.
it might be infected too before you were able to understand that something was wrong.
 4. if you are about to use ANY backup, make sure to rescan it with an antivirus program before applying.
if you use them, you will get infected again, so consider them lost anyway.
But people who have the time, and enjoy noodling around, can try methods listed in other posts.