The MD5 is 61c2088850185ede8e18001d1ef3e6d12daa5692 vs2010sp1dvd1.iso
I just ran into a nasty problem with an ISO download from Microsoft.
I have never tried to continue a download started from another application (mostly browser) but I think it should be fine.
If not, it means that your download is ended prematurely.
Now, OK, sometimes that happens - but it surprised me that the truncated file (which was only slightly more than 60% of the actual ISO) burnt successfully and seemed to be presenting me with a sensible file system, to the extent that I could (apparently) successfully copy the files.
A solution that detects most truncated images will be accepted, it doesn't need to be perfect.
If the source did not provide any checksums for you, you should first check the file size and see if it matches.
The ISO from the download center is the same one you can get from MSDN.
(I'd prefer something that doesn't give false positives, though.)
From there, you can test the archive using the 'Test' command in the toolbar.
I always use wget as a download manager as it fails rarely and allows continuing aborted downloads.
So, is there some way I could have tested the file to see if it was complete or not?
Do commonly used CD/DVD (data) formats include any embedded information about how much data is supposed to be on the disk, or even better, some kind of CRC?
One should have a download manager in their tools for downloading large files consistently even though one does not use it every day.
http://corz.org/windows/software/checksum/simple-checksum.php
[Addendum: a comparison of the disk burnt with the truncated image with the files extracted from the full image suggests that chunks of the data from many of the files were replaced with random information, perhaps from the contents of a previous burn to the same rewritable disk.]
A quick-n-dirty method: if you install 7-Zip, you can right-click an ISO and open it as an archive - something I usually do anyway to unpack it (as an alternative to burning to DVD).
The MS web site did not provide any information about the expected size, so I'm looking for a generic solution: given an ISO file which may or may not be truncated, is there some way to tell?
If you don't have a MD5, you can download one here.
I successfully burnt it to a rewritable DVD, and copied the contents to the local hard drive on another machine, but when I went to run them they were corrupt.
Also in linux, you can use wget, with -c command to continue aborted downloads.