use MegaCLI to turn on the amber light for a particular slot when a drive dies).
I know most people are against this, but the snapshot/clone, compression and flexible partition of ZFS served us very well.
if the device node name is directly related to the card and slot number, it may be a trivial transformation....otherwise, it may be quite difficult.
We've been running ZFS on top of a single hardware RAID on dell poweredge for years.
There is an excellent article and tutorial on how to do this at https://calomel.org/megacli_lsi_commands.html
Whenever a drive dies, a dell technician is dispatched (the server is in another State), he will confirm that drive has an amber light, and replace it.
Even if you have to manually use MegaCLI to turn on the amber light from the shell when a drive dies to satisfy the Dell tech's procedural expectations, you're still better off giving ZFS raw drives rather than overlaying ZFS on top of hardware raid - you're losing most of the important features of ZFS by doing that, and they're the most important features (e.g.
See Here: https://forums.servethehome.com/index.php?threads/crossflash-dell-h330-raid-card-to-12gbps-hba-it-firmware.25498/
I know that zfsonlinux has a ZFS Event Daemon (ZED) which you can use to cause particular things to happen on certain events (e.g.
IIRC, FreeBSD has a ZFSd which can do similar things but I am not an expert on FreeBSD so can not point you to more information other than to say that the FreeBSD forums are full of useful advice and helpful people.
You can control the PERC H730 and H330 using the LSI MegaCLI utility as both of these cards are Dell PERC badged LSI cards.
I suspect that the hardest part of doing this will be figuring out what the MegaCLI "slot" number is for a given drive, because ZFS only knows about the device node / name, and doesn't have specific LSI or PERC information.
Current dell RAID controllers (PERC H730/H330) do support pass-through.
I flashed a DELL H330 RAID card to HBA IT Firmware.
Now we want to take advantage of L2ARC/ZIL caching of ZFS, we are seriously thinking about running ZFS on bare disks.