Eventually larger data files will just hit the slower drive and the benefit will drop off a bit.
I thought that they would use the 64GB SSD to install the OS with the HDD acting as a data drive.
This way, you can gain the maximum booting speed benefit of going strictly with SSD, maximum virtual memory read & write speed by going strictly with SSD.....and the half-way between benefit for all of your games & normal programs.
Soon enough using the system will turn into a baseline of performance and I'll forget that it's "faster", and by the time I notice newer drives and bus technologies will still leave me drumming my fingers wishing my word processor launched a fraction of a second quicker.
Striping two drives into one does increase the odds of losing data in a failure, so a backup is a must.
I never thought of creating a RAID combing the two types of drives.
It also depends on what data is written where and in what order, although it's probably fast because the OS and early-install stuff is striped across the SSD drive.
These drives offer specific significant benefits, particularly when used with mobile devices.
Use this second partition to stripe with your HDD for all of your program files.
However, an increasingly common arrangement is to attach some flash memory to a normal disk and call it a hybrid drive.
A 64GB drive plus a 300GB drive in RAID0 does not make sense.
To me this seems like a great way to get blazing fast boot and general seek times while taking advantage of the cheaper HDDs for extra storage.
If you're just using it as a general-purpose home computer and aren't looking to increase reliability, then yeah, you'd get a hybrid performance machine that will not be as good as pure SSD in performance but better than two 7200 RPM disks.
It's possible that your two drives could have been combined to give the same performance characteristics of a hybrid drive.
From the user's perspective, these drives would be combined to form one larger disk.
I was shocked to see that they used a striped raid to combine both drives into one surprisingly fast logical drive.
And combining such dramatically different types of disks in a RAID array doesn't fit logically either.
Recently I bought a PC that came with a 64GB SSD along with a 300GB 7200 RPM hard disk drive.
Newer hybrid drives do this within the disk itself, though it's conceivable that it could be done purely in software instead, even with two separate disk channels.
Also ensure that your virtual memory is set to this drive & partition as well.
From my experience, I would actually suggest an approach that may work out most ideally, but it will take some fine tuning.
This wouldn't be automatic, of course; there would have to be some driver deciding which of the two drives to store data on in order to give the best performance boost.
I wouldn't want to decrease reliability of my system and increase odds of data loss for the sake of faster drive performance.
Leaving a descent chunk for Windows' updates & fragmentation breathing room, use the rest of the SSD to make a second partition.