You would create one large "container" file on the external hard drive.
* I need to be able to copy the entire backup to HD without human intervention (only using a script)
Leaks lots of information about the data on the HD (file names and sizes...)
Handling fully encrypted disks is typically not that fun.
When saving data to the image you will have to enter your password, but you can copy out the file without using a password.
We have used it for years on very large file systems.
You can also use its command-line program to script it, too.
My suggestion would be to use dm-crypt or Truecrypt and create a disk image for loop-back mounting.
This basically encrypts the disk but allows it to be used on any PC regardless of whether they have truecrypt installed.
* the backup written on HD must be as reliable as possible
This can be set to manually mount or auto-mount the encrpyted disk depending on you preference.
Version 7 has just come out which vastly speeds up encryption time.
* I need to be able to read the backup on the HD programmatically (there shouldn't be any human entering the password)
You can't copy out the backup without a password (breaks one of your requirements).
solution 3: buy an external hard drive that offers hardware encryption
This file is actually an encrypted hard drive image that can be mounted under /mnt/ (for example).
solution 1: encrypt each and every file via the backup script before copying it on the hard disk
Good cypher is expensive and the HW implementations for HD are often terribly broken and/or slow.
Requires an encrypted FS and kernel modules in both ends.
dm-crypt should, on any modern hardware, be faster than your HD.
You will need a password to decrypt the backup however.
I have a local server in the office that I want to back up programmatically (via a bash script) everyday to an external hard disk that I will bring home.
To back it up, you would unmount the TrueCrypt volume and then simply back up the container file.
I can see three viable solutions for that and I am here to ask your opinions about which one will work best for my case.