As compute power increased, compiled languages became more viable, and C offered the best compromise between power and productivity, at a very basic level being little more than a macro assembler.
Or some combination of all these (and other) reasons?
In general, the programmer has no control as to when the variable will be tagged for deletion nor when it will be reclaimed (reclamation of used memory is an advanced topic that most C++ and Java programmers don't experience).
These languages depend on a run-time environment that will mark a variable to delete, then run a garbage collector at random (unscheduled) intervals to reclaim the memory.
The last point is that some of this is historical and political.
If the computer industry is in a state where Java's performance and uptake satisfies enough people, then maybe Java would be the de facto standard game development language.
Deallocation involves adding the memory block to a container, and possibly merging it with existing blocks.
In C++ you can allocate local variables that disappear after the function ends.
Games programmers have mostly been comfortable with C++, possibly because they grew up with C and C++, and it met their needs.
The tricky thing to understand is that when choosing programming languages there is an overall tradeoff between efficiency for the computer and efficiency for the programmer.
Java and C# allocate memory dynamically, except for primitive types.
C# for example might be just as suitable to games development, but it came after C++.
You want to know how much health you have at any time and don't want to wait for it.
Every programming languages have strengths and weaknesses across a range of factors.
C++ is ultimately very flexible, and I've yet to see a design paradigm that can't be at least simulated in C++, whilst being able to maintain near total control over performance.
They want to produce an interactive experience, which means it has to be reactive and able to output as much useful (or interesting) data as possible.
The speed of C++ is primarily due to its direct translation to executable code.
In general, interpretive languages are slower performers than directly translated languages.
And if you click a button, you expect a gun to fire or your character to jump when you say so.
Is it some other feature in the language, like the OO paradigm or the portability?
Some people still program games in BASIC, Pascal, and C. Whatever programmers are comfortable with, they'll stick to.
C++ was just the natural successor to C. You throw away no former code or knowledge, yet have the potential to expand into new methodologies.
I'm curious as to why C++ is so popular for games development, and not other languages instead.
They have enough to worry about simulating the game world without having to always care about how a linked list works.
That is, which is more important to you, how quickly the computer runs the code or how quickly the programmer writes the code?
Java and C# are compiled to an intermediate code which is then interpreted by a virtual machine.
Dynamic memory allocation usually involves searching a container for an adequate block of memory, marking the memory, then tagging it as occupied.
They still want the option of diving into the implementation details if they need performance, but it'd be great if for the most part they can deal on the level of the entities in their game world.
Once upon a time code was written in assembler for ultimate performance.
The stack variables do not contribute to the dynamic memory allocation issues of fragmentation and overhead.
Is it because of all the libraries that have been created over time?
core rendering routines) but many tasks in gameplay code don't have to run all that fast (eg.
making the door open when the player clicks on it) which means it is smart to use a much simpler (and thus faster to write programs in) language for those parts.
A little lag can interfere with this interactivity so you need performance.
Many flame wars have been fought between the different programming languages.
That is why many game engines are written in C++ but embed a scripting language like Lua for writing gameplay code.
If someone could fill me in on this, I'd be very happy.
Another important factor is preferring to program in the language of the problem, rather the language of the implementation.
I know you can create very fast code with it, but what exactly is it that makes it popular?
To see why this is a natural fit for games, compare with some other language options:
A game programmer wants to deal with humans, orcs and race-cars, not memory register ED0.
Certain tasks require the computer to work as fast as possible (eg.
One of the most important factors a game programmer cares about is performance.
Raw speed is the primary reason, but actually it's not an either-or decision so lots of game companies are starting to use other languages for parts of the game.
You can have the performance benefits of assembly or C code with the expressiveness of objects.
Allocating room on the stack is quick and easy (just adjusting a pointer).