I tried to use the on-screen keyboard in many other ways on the "intermediate" RDP session but my issue was not resolved until I performed the procedure described above.
But when you also hit the E, the event is captured by your own desktop and processed accordingly.
With RDP highlighted did Windows key + D and it got resolved.
Pressing L without any modifiers in my RDP session on my work computer would send me to the lock screen of the RDP session on the Remote Desktop Services server.
That might not be possible in your case, but have you tried it?
For example, if you press Win+E to open a new Windows Explorer window.
Trying many proposed solutions on my own as well as on my work computer including restarting both computers did not resolve the issue.
Later when using RDP when i hit D it was minimizing the windows.
To avoid this from happening, it can be beneficial to simply send all key combinations through to the other computer.
The same flag can also be found in various wrapper applications, like mRemoteNG:
The event of pressing down your Win key will be sent through the RDP tunnel.
(its the on-screen keyboard utility), clicking the windows key, and then clicking it again to disable it.
In my case I was using my own computer to access my work computer via RemoteApp so there were three computers involved and the Windows key was "stuck" in the "intermediate" RDP session of the Remote Desktop Services server.
I finally solved the problem by performing the following steps while at the unexpected "intermediate" lock screen:
There is a common issue when using RDP connections and pressing key combinations that invoke special functionality in Windows.
One trick I have found to fixing this issue is going to Start --> Run --> osk
I was connected to RDP and was working on my local desktop,did Windows Key + D is minimize the window.
There seem to be many ways this problem can manifest itself.
That means that the up or release event is never sent through the tunnel, so it will behave as if the key is stuck.