In Windows XP and previous versions of Windows, it was basically required to run everything in the Administrator account because otherwise using Windows was a real pain.
Also, it allows for everyday programs such as your web browser to run in user-space so in case of an exploit, the attacker won't be able to get very far.
This causes every bit of code run by a webpage to be run in a very low privilege mode, where the code only has access to things like the user's temporary folder.
None of this means UAC can in any way replace anti-virus software.
UAC is a massive pain in Windows Vista, but it is alot better in Windows 7
For instance, when UAC is on Internet Explorer 7 and 8 have a feature called Protected Mode.
UAC asks for permission from the user to do stuff.
As to whether it is enough to eliminate the need for antivirus, personally I don't run with any so I vote yes.
The beauty of this is that it reduces the number of targets for malicious software to hit as at any given time there are fewer apps that can take full control of permissions.
Conversely, when you see a UAC prompt where an application is requesting Admin rights, the app is being given virtual admin rights just for that app.
UAC does mimic the unix tradition as  you suggest.
Some people say it's annoying, but it's useful when you're a power user.
For example, you download some small tool that you know shouldn't require admin privileges, but it asks for elevation anyways.
I certainly feel a lot safer using Windows with UAC on.
With it, executable code can be run at a higher or lower permission level than the current user.
It doesent stop the user from answering yes when they shouldn't.
But, if you're really careful, UAC can make going without anti-virus a lot easier.
However I probably should run some anyway to use a defence in depth strategy.
UAC is definitely not enough to eliminate antivirus programs.
The biggest benefit of UAC is that it allows people to run most things at the standard user permission level, and elevate as necessary.