It is running BIOS v1.19 (latest that I can find).
I have visited the F12 boot device menu, and there is no USB option.
I have an IBM x3650 (7979) and had similar issues installing FreeNAS 11.1 using SanDisk stick (Glide 16GB, which however worked great on my other systems using Supermicro boards).
Hello serverfault community, and thank you in advance for your time.
After the installation, I set the BIOS to boot from USB (F12 option, then select USB Drive, then make it "Persist").
Details: I have turned on the USB-related option in the BIOS.
The device summary in the BIOS recognizes my mouse and keyboard in any port, but never sees any other connected USB devices.
Summary: I have an IBM x3650, which I bought secondhand (eBay).
So I guess it depends on the USB stick as to whether the x3650 will see it or not.
I finally overcame the problem using an old Kingston 32GB USB 2.0 stick (couple of years old), and the install went through without any issue.
I'm using SanDisk Cruzers to boot the installation image right now.
I have tried a Kingston Datatraveler and Sandisk Cruzer Fit.
I have booted from the ESXi installer CD, which was able to identify both of the flash drives I plugged in, but only after I pulled them out and plugged them back in.
The built-in ServeRaid-8K controller does not have native ZFS support, so I installed a low-profile LSI SAS HBA controller (HP variant of LSI SAS3442E-R, flashed to LSI IT mode) .
I was testing out free esxi on a x3650 (7979) and I was able to get it to boot off an old 32Gb corsair voyager USB just fine.
Models, versions, etc: Server chassis identifies itself as a 797961U, but motherboard is different from the one in IBM's 7979 User Manual.
Do I have any recourse through IBM with a secondhand server?
I am trying to install and run VMWare ESXi 5.5 on it via a USB flash drive, but it will not boot from a USB flash drive.
I booted the installation CD through X3650's builtin CD-ROM drive, and the installation saw the Cruzer stick, but process always failed with bunch of write errors to the USB drive.
Is there a way of tackling this that I haven't considered?
I am so happy to bring this serve alive with FreeNAS!
It simply does not give me option anywhere to boot from a USB device.
I wanted to free it up, so I bought a sandisk cruzer because I heard they are good performers, but I could not boot up off the sandisk.