Since you're already running your existing sites on CentOS, I'd assume you have some institutional knowledge about it.
CentOS is essentially Red Hat Enterprise Linux, so we're already in the realm of "distro for production web server".
My only recommendations are to install the bare minimum needed to make it work.
There are some differences if you're going to be using paravirtualization or OS Zones instead of a full-virtualization solution such as HyperV or VMWare.
I would personally avoid consolidating 2 server in one single server, because if it goes down (think about an hardware problem or network interface misconfiguration) then ALL of your web sites are down.
In the worst case, you'd be upgrading to CentOS 6, but that may be an easier path than learning the configuration details of Debian or Ubuntu LTS, etc.
Unless you can't configure your server without a GUI, don't install a desktop.
Because of this, a better question for you to investigate is the effect of these hypervisors on your Webserving environment.
If you feel CentOS may lag too much behind RHEL, you can look into getting a proper RHEL installation, or one of the other ones.
I would rather get 2 new servers and split the load of the various web sites between the two.
If anything, everything is even more comfortable within a VM than the last time you saw these.
VMWare/HyperV are easy to set up, where something like LXC can yield a few percentage points better performance.
Of course there is also CentOS, but I'm not a big fan of RPM and for me configuration and updating is better under Debian.
Installing additional components increases the risk of vulnerabilities, and (especially the case of desktop environments) uses up system resources.
Derived: If you need more up-to-date packages go with Ubuntu Server (only if you rly need), if you need RHEL-compatibility go with CentOS and for everything else Debian is a great choice.
Use what you're comfortable configuring and securing.
I'm always using Debian, it's fast, stable, has got an awesome amount of packages and the default configuration files are (really) helpful.
Nothing much has changed since that last round up.