Under the right circumstances, either of those mailers will work just fine.
It's tough to really give a useful answer as you've included almost no detail in your question.
IMO, unless there is a good reason not to, it doesn't make sense to run on-premise email solutions if you have any combination of the problems that I listed above.
But you need to outline some of your requirements a little more.
I'm sure there are a few more questions I've missed as I'm writing in a hurry, but this should cover the basics.
When you have that many users, management and automation becomes a big factor.
Postfix is a really good MTA in most situations, fast, reliable and easy to setup.
Exim might come handy when you need to do more advanced kind of things.
If you already have a Windows / Active Directory setup then I would ask why you felt that Exchange was not meeting your needs.
Postfix is probably one of the most scalable / well used open source options but you need to think carefully about how it will integrate into your environment, otherwise you or your colleagues will spend far too much time on the management of such a system.
So you will have some constant turnover in your user-base.
And being a university, many new ones will arrive, and many will leave.
I think that several people here can recommend different solutions; Postfix + Amavisd + Dovecot has worked fine for me for several years, although that setup has changed for me recently.
I'd recommend using a hosted email solution (Google, Microsoft Live, Microsoft EHS, etc) at least for the students, as these services are usually month to month and you can terminate student accounts at the end of the semester.
This is a pretty typical setup for some companies, as it allows the Exchange server to not be exposed at all to the outside, and there are several Postfix setups that do a decent job of filtering unwanted email and virus attacks.
I'll just come out and say it, you need to provide more details about your planned deployment.
If the Exchange/Postfix solution isn't working for you now I'd guess that you have one or more of the following problems: