If so, keep going, you can move on to other languages (read c++) if you so desire later on.
This is a pretty comprehensive guide to starting out in game development, covering what languages are available, then a list of the most popular tools and libraries, as well as free and commercial book suggestions.
I'll state now that Lua's weird to me, particularly trying to get OOP down with it, since there's no real built-in easy method to do this with.
PyGame will not prevent you from realizing your goal of creating a commercial game that makes you a bit of money.
You can do this in pygame, there's nothing wrong with that.
The toolchain is not what makes a game commercial or not, it's not what makes it a AAA title or not.
However, it is a long read, but I promise you that you will be much more knowledgeable when you finish!
There is nothing directly wrong with C++, but it is not a very approachable language and there is a level of difficulty in just getting up and running that adds another level of complexity that a new developer doesn't need.
Most of what is inside is completely free and provides direct download links.
It is a language to consider in the future, but in my humble opinion, not one to learn with!
Since you are comfortable with the tools they will be the ones best suited to you and your goals.
As you get more proficient in one language you'll find others come easier as well.
Then again, nobody listens and they start with C++ anyways!
Don't worry so much about what you're going to do later- instead focus on getting better with the tools you have, and gaining proficiency in learning new tools, as those are quite dynamic.
In any case, Pygame (framework; based on Python), Love2D (framework; based on Lua), Game Maker (game engine with IDE), and StencylWorks (free game engine with IDE; makes Flash games) are pretty good.
On the 3D side, there's a lot of options, but the Blender Game Engine's pretty good (and can make 2D games).
If you are comfortable with Python and PyGame, then continue using them to create games, even games you sell.