That is, of course, what the headings for the columns say:
There is a tool called smem which can show USS, PSS and RSS of processes (and calculate total USS, total PSS, and a meaningless ”total RSS”); or you can grab Pss: values from /proc/*/smaps and sum them using custom scripts.
More useful metrics for process memory usage in this case would be:
The %MEM column has the same problem, because it is RSS divided by the amount of physical memory on the machine.
I am new to Linux and have managed to set up this VPS to host websites from scratch and without a control panel, but I can't figure out why this RAM is being used.
The 4th column is the percentage RAM column, which means Apache is using 21.6% of my server's RAM.
Unfortunately, figuring out the actual memory usage of multiple closely related processes is not simple.
As you use the commands more, you'll eventually learn which columns are which without having to refer to the headings.
Note that you need root privileges to read /proc/*/smaps data for any processes except your own.
Of course, with such a long display as ps aux might generate, the headings may scroll off your terminal.
The RSS column in the output of ps shows the Resident Set Size of each process, which is the amount of physical memory used by the process, but some amount of that memory is actually shared with other processes, therefore just summing RSS values of several processes does not give a correct result (shared memory is counted multiple times).
USS and PSS of several processes can be meaningfully summed, unlike RSS.
I run a low end box, 512mb RAM with Centos 6.3, Nginx, PHP and MySQL but Apache is showing up when I run a ps aux and it is using a lot of RAM.
It shows that php-fpm is running under the apache user account.
Unfortunately, ps even from recent versions of procps-ng cannot show these values.
When you view your processes with the headings, it then becomes obvious:
I wonder if anyone could help me with why this RAM is being used.
Why is Apache using all this when I am running Nginx?