As an insult to the existing injury...each hub counts as a device, so you'll burn quite a few device addresses on your quest to get to 127.
If the hardware conforms to USB spec, and the operating system is decent, you will get message pop-ups for actual faults.
A lot of those "USB toys" made overseas patently ignore anything about power requirements.
The host bus controller asks each device in turn if it needs to do any sending or receiving, then after that one moves on to the next.
I have a teribyte-and-a-half hard drive hooked up to it, and when I plug in my measly 8GB thumb drive it doesn't recognize it and I have to plug it into a port directly on the machine to get it to work.
"A maximum of 5 unit loads (500mA) can be drawn from a port in USB 2.0," - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Serial_Bus#Power
A "powered hub" actually has a power supply that plugs into it.
It'd be a dream if I could connect even...say..more than four...
I'd wager it has something to do with the (poorly-conceived) way that USB works, which is essentially a round-robin queue.
(Actually, all the ports work, just not all at the same time...)
Unless you supply more power by plugging the hub into a wall wart you will not be able to draw more than 500mA via the computer's USB port.
I think you are running afoul of the maximum power draw for a single  USB device.
If a device just stops responding there's no message, but there is that "disconnect sound" if you use Windows.
At any given time I can get about four of them to work.
Especially with USB hard drives, it's really nice if you can give them their own bus so that the host never has to interrupt them to see if the mouse has moved at all.
How much of a difference this makes in practice I haven't bothered to measure.
You can chain more hubs to get more ports but you must supply more power than the computer can via the USB port to run them all.
The more devices you have on the bus, the more latency you're going to have.
They also work a lot of the time, which tells you how faithfully most computers follow the spec.
If the current draw is too much you would get "power limit exceeded" message.