Kind of like making a cake, then adding frosting and fondant after the base cake is good.
You can handle your desire for "Respec" differently by allowing more advanced combat tactics to be skill based, similar to diablo 3. being able to quickly prepare your skills to enhance situational tactics can give you that "No one build destroys everything" aspect without making it unapproachable.
After you create the basic small prototype, then you will be able to expand it.
So if you want to get ALL this done, what you have to do is cut it down a lot and get the BASIC IDEA of all this.
First make the game playable and then expand it to this.
That way at LEAST they have the potential to survive a deadly encounter with their nemesis by using their minor skillset intelligently.
As Joza100 said though, this is a lot for a beginner, and you should really just get the bare-bones game working first, then layer features on after.
Often games tend to prefer single class focus, as you described for your end game, however from a user perspective consider this:
I didn't read the whole thing, but I ran trough it and I can really say it's too much for a beginner.
That doesn't mean everyone will feel that way, however I think we should always try to consider each possibility we can.
I propose that while you structure your skill tree allow the player to not just be rock paper scissor, but rather One of something and Half of another.
Now I can't progress without relearning a whole new skill tree?
Each level granted new information, so the majority of the time spent playing was interrupted with learning some new aspect.
I muscled through it, learning this new ruleset, and finally done!
Of course it's good for you to have this tree, but what I see from this is that you are aiming too high!
Now that I'm at max level, fully invested in my class, thinking I've finally "got there" turns up I get absolutely murdered by a group of "Warriors."
So I've outlined a potential use case where your design would disappoint.
All of this is definitely possible, in fact it sounds somewhat similar to the leveling system in DDO (Dungeons & Dragons Online).
So instead of doing all this to make it playable, make sure it's playable when you make just a part of all this!
Trust me it happened to me many times and I have only finished one small game.