sure you could say the odds of winning a 50/50 battle 10 times in a row is unlikely.
Players receive many advantages that are generally silently accepted like you mentioned.
The mechanics used to ensure the player has a slight advantage need not to be described to them or explained since theoretically they could do it without the advantage
Given that this is the way that the "story of the characters" work, it is not surprising that if they have a fight it will have a heroic outcome.
You could, depending on tone, also "hang a lampshade on it" and point out the absurdity before carrying on regardless.
In all these games the players are the "heroes" of a story
You could also take a look at Bloodborne for comparison as they have quite a unique take on this.
Given the same ship and even the same exact character, players still come out ahead due to this fourth-wall version of precognition.
More broadly, the protagonist(s) in nearly all fiction are outpowered compared to those around them.
Player superiority is so well established by the thousands of games that have gone before that it is highly unlikely to raise the slightest eyebrow.
but that is why they are the main character, they are the one with the story to tell.
A lot of NPCs can and will pretty much one-shot the PC.
If they fall in love it will be with the most beautiful.
The player can win 20 coin flips in a row because they (in theory) went through all one million possibilities.
This is not a matter of luck - or as you are concerned with - the laws of reality in the world in which they live.
It is simply the path of the hero to tread a way that is brighter and a better story than everyone else
Drawing attention to it is likely to be more difficult to do well than simply ignoring the issue and carrying on.
Mainly the ability to repeat encounters and bring in outside knowledge.
This makes for an insane high learning curve but proves all the more satisfying for the right kind of player.
See Joseph Campbell's The Hero with a Thousand Faces if you want to understand the relation between hero and their story
If you will explain it it will probably lower the satisfaction.
Pretty much all games do this and it is more than accepted.
no one needs an explanation because they are emotionally invested in this person winning, they won't question something that is possible.
Games like SUPERHOT and Hotline Miami are good examples of this.
It's rather like the way that people depicted in films never go to the toilet, spend hours doing laundry or fill in forms.
They are on a path in that story where everything is interesting, exciting and relevant.
If these things happen they just kind of occur outside of the story
When you win a life or death fight, its not the losers that get to tell the story, if the ships are equal than its a 50% chance you win each fight.
You are more likely to win 20 50/50 fights in a row than win the lottery and we don't need additional lore for someone winning the lottery beyond that it happened.
Just imagine your spaceship needs to shoot down enemies that look like ducks instead of bad-ass star cruisers (even though they have the same stats), would that be satisfying?