www-data is commonly used as Apache's account which is used to execute the php.
There are viruses that sniff the local traffic for FTP user-names and passwords and then login and infect the files.
FTP is horribly insecure and it's very likely that you were hacked from this method.
For files or directories that need to be written by the websever you can change the owner to the web server or set the chmod g+2 the relevant files or directories.
Wordpress was the only software that would have caused something like this as far as I know.
You could also run this command to see the user account:
Make sure you run an anti-virus on all machines with FTP access.
Keep track of the fun on their status page: It'll tell you all about the latest exploits (and, yes indeed, there's a "possible exploit" up there right now).
I spent thanksgiving last year away from my family and removing porn links from my websites.
If you care about security you'll use SFTP,  which encrypts everything.
Their security is very poor...started with PLAIN TEXT PASSWORDS last year and continues to this day (you could call tech support and they say "what's your password?").
Another possibility is that you are using an old library or application.
Most site files need to readable by the web server.
That company looks glossy as hell on the surface, but the grid server is a mess.
My Media Temple Grid Server accounts have been "hacked" like this a number of times.
Visit the software vendor's site and make sure you are running the latest version.
I know because I get monthly emails about how they've changed all my account passwords and they actually go in and change database passwords for you every time they get hacked.
Sending source code and passwords over the wire in clear text is total madness.
set the owner to someone other than the used by the web server.
On a read only site, only the logs need to be writeable by the web server.
Please see this post from last year about the original fiasco (warning, it will piss you off).
However Apache only needs the execute bit to run your php application.
Using FTP you can make files writable,  and then infect them again.
The point of chmod is to revoke access to other accounts on the system.