I think the trick is to look for login and shell related processes which could hang new ones.
I just had the exact same problem, though it occurred after installing Git (or at least that is when I noticed the issue).
The CNET article cures the symtoms but the cause of this problem is still unknown.
I force-quitted them all, though some login processes didn't quit—probably the sudo kept them hanging.
However, the Terminal will intermittently go blank and I have to repeat the process again and it's driving me nuts.
I managed to get the command prompt back after following the instructions from the MacFixIt column at CNET : OS X Terminal displays a blank window instead of a command prompt
I believe sudo has been fixed on Mac OS X Lion 10.7 to exit if you close the terminal.
If you run sudo and it prompts for your password, but you close the terminal, sudo will hang forever waiting for the password, and this blocks any other logins until you kill it.
I noticed root was running several (> 10) login processes, few sh processes and a sudo process.
Try running jobs at the Terminal to see if that shell has any child processes in the background.
I opened the Activity Monitor and selected to show all processes.
Does anyone has any theories or experiences to share in order to fix this annoying problem permanently?
After this, Terminal worked normally and the excessive login processes I couldn't kill quitted.
After installing MySQL 5.1.50 64-bit and running the package that configures MyQL to run at startup, the Terminal app now sporadically display a blank window, like so:
I actually found that the issue, for me, was related to a hung "login" process.
In following the suggestion above, I did not see any "sudo" process within the list from Activity Monitor, but I did notice a lot of "login" processes owned by root.
The solution is to kill the "sudo" process with Activity Monitor.
Probably, in my case, killing the sudo would've been sufficient enough.
I went through and started killing these, and one of them triggered something and the prompt came back within iTerm for me.
If there is something super heavy running in the background maybe it is causing the shell to become unresponsive?
The CNet article you referred is good for a last resort.