The basic box has room for 5 internal disks and if you chose it an eSATA port to which you can connect an external storage unit with room for 5 more disks.
One (2 can be connected) SATA Port Multiplier for 5 Disks (Sil 3726)
The point who should be the harder to decide is the storage.
I don't know how to expand the RAID 5 part every few months but here's what I believe:
If you're sure about the amount of Hard drive memory required each years, you could made you server on a classic PC with 6 SATA connector and a RAID Controller over the Motherboard.
like this one: www.cooldrives.com/2poespcrasai.html
ION 2 platform is useless though, not enough PCI-E lanes
My answer was to buy a BBS2 and install Ubuntu, at which point I was able to do what I wanted in terms of software and services.
The ability to take snapshots then depends on using LVM2, then you'll want to use software RAID over the top, which supports growing the array.
One important thing is the following line in /boot/loader.conf
6 2TB WD Green drives, 5 drive raidz, when that's full, buy another 5 drives (3GB will be cheap enough by then hopefully) When that's full, replace the old 2TB drives with 4TB drives, repeat until holographic storage.
You should also think about the start current from the Disks.
I've recently built a system that has some of the mentioned features.
www.supermicro.com/products/system/1U/5015/SYS-5015A-H.cfm?typ=H
With today's disk capacities that up to 20 TB of raw (about 14 to 15 TB usable by the time you take RAID and filesystem overheads into account) storage.
If you don't want it in an 19"-Case you can use the second PCIe Port on the Board for a 2nd Controller with 2 Ports for additional 10 Disks.
The System run's FreeBSD 8.0 from a smal 2,5" internal SATA-Disk and has currently 3 1TB Disk connected to the Portmultiplier.
like this one: www.cooldrives.com/cosapomubrso.html
Antec P183 case, 400W Silverstone ST40EF PSU, ASRock A330ION ION Atom 330 mini ITX motherboard, LSI SAS3081E 8 port sas/sata pci-e 8x card, 4GB ram
7 3.5" drive slots, 4 5.25" (will have to convert to 3.5" somehow later)
Pfiouu, you want an all-in-the-box server in fact.
I also have run iozone on this system an it performs not bad for 3 energy saving 5600rpm Drives
If you need more than 1 TB/Years in plus of those you already have, you should see over the professional solutions, but it's really expensive.
It's a bit slow sometimes, I went for low power atom, but zfs plus other stuff might need more cpu.
I have taped Pin 11 (pinouts.ru/Power/sata-power_pinout.shtml) of the Power connectors so the drives don't spin up simultaneously.
SMB, SSH, NFS, Webserver, Nagios, MRTG/Cacti, BT are no real Problems