But really, you're avoiding one of the better features of VMware: High availability.
Hi I have the following setup for using vSphere with HA:
Please outline the IOPS requirements of your database server.
The better solution would be to re-examine the database's IO requirements and look into a SAN that can support its and the rest of your cluster's needs.
This is cluster-management software that will allow you to have one or more mirrors of the same server, managing service failover, IP addresses and of course, data.
You can implement a third-party synchronous or asynchronous data replication package like SIOS SteelEye.
The storage network is 10gbE and while it wouldn't meet the performance requirements long term I would like to have a way to have an automatic fail over to shared storage in the event that the Host fails.
The IOP requirements of the database server are very high, as such the database files are spread across three local SSD raid 10 arrays.
VMware has the same thing called vSAN being currently in beta.
So StarWind had visioned the future long before whole IT industry had moved to the right direction :) Key point here - run inside HYPERVISOR and not inside a guest VM.
If that's acceptable, its probably the best choice.
Or, if that's not a possiblity, then maybe moving the DB to dedicated hardware and leveraging the application's HA offerings (Oracle RAC/dataguard, mysql master-master, etc) to meet your needs.
However, its not going to be automated like vSphere HA (at least I don't think so) and you're not going to get better than a 15min RPO.
There is vSphere Replication, which is a vmware appliance that could replicate the database VM and its local storage to another host's local storage.
My problem with this is the finding some kind of reasonable HA for the database server.
Is there any way to improve the capabilities of your NAS?
The vSphere Storage Appliance can "share" local storage between different vmware hosts, but I don't think its included in essentials plus.
Does anyone have any suggestions on how I could do this ?
Perhaps pick up to the last image backup on shared storage ?