Its web interface makes administering a PBX simple.
Those costs add up fast for a small business, and there are powerful economies of scale available.
The coolest thing for me has been the ability to generate as many conference codes as needed - I created one for each member of the sales staff - which eliminated all of the "Using conference line between 3:00 and 4:00" emails in addition to giving some accounting of who is using it.
They have a very sucky billing department, but their support is good (sometimes very slow do) and it just works.
Probably haven't had more than 10-15 parties on a call, so I don't know their limit.
Many ITSPs offer declining-balance options, so you truly only pay for what you use, and typical rates are about 1/3 of what you're paying now.
A 16 user conference call requires 16 phone lines (or 16 channels on a PRI or equivalent).
There are other features like conference recording which can be useful.
We're small, so eventually we decided to go with Trixbox.
gotomeeting.com audio quality is shotty sometimes, but nice if you have a presentation.
As a long-time Asterisk user and Digium employee, I'm a bit biased.
For those that like a safety net, Digium (the creator and sponsor of Asterisk) offers subscriptions that include professional, round-the-clock tech support.
As far as terms go, you pay for the licenses and support, since it's a whole PBX, not just a conferencing solution.
They have a very nifty feature where if two companies have Trixbox installed, calls between them get routed over the Internet, and they're completely free (bandwidth issues aside).
If you're considering rolling your own, the best open source telephony engine is Asterisk.
Assuming you have sufficient telephone connections, there are lots of options available for doing your own conferencing.
Choose an ITSP with a good reputation and attractive rates, and configure as many conferences as you like with no telco hassles.
You can use either land lines or a VoIP account, so as far as cost goes it depends on that.
Hey Otto has a certain cool factor to it, but it's $.09 per minute.
For instance, NBX Software has an interesting solution that uses SIP/VoIP and runs on Windows; with it and a telephone gateway you are going!
And it is getting worse rather than better as VoIP and SIP start to merge voice onto our networks.
We do 3,000+ minutes/month & are on a volume plan with a good rate - they bill per minute/per caller.
Check out Switchvox, Digium's business-ready PBX based on Asterisk.
Most phone systems have conference hosting options, some are expensive and some are cheap.
I would be surprised if a small company without lots of phone connectivity could do it cost effectively.
The biggest issue in rolling your own phone conferencing is getting sufficient connectivity to the system.
Pros: Can Scale on demand, less management, more features (ie transcription)
We're using AccuConference and they have been great - our bills are half what they used to be (in large part due to their auto-disconnect if after 15 minutes if there is only one party on the line).
It looks like they may be rolling out a web/video conferencing solution but I haven't gotten there yet.