With USB-3 the limiting factor will be the read-write performance of the actual disk and not the USB-link and you should get similar performance as you would get from the hot swap SATA port.
Zfs support exporting via Samba (CIFS) out of the box , i never tried it myself but something like this to get you an idea
Or , if you can really predict the usage patterns of your data try to see if AWS Glacier which is extremely cheap but does not get you to access your data instantly when you need it and requires you to re-download the data whenever you need to access it.
In addition it isn't dependant on "exotic" hardware making your solution more future proof.
Regardless the tried and true method of keeping two datasets synchronised is rsync.
swift - Openstack S3-like service , accessible via HTTP API (And a milion fuse based projects to make it work like a FS)
That gives you the benefit of some extra protection for the disks as well as a connector that is designed for repeated unplugging and insertions.
Since the "Windows" part is not a requirement , i dare to suggest using ZFS.
For this kind of archiving purposes an object based storage service seems to be the perfect fit, a couple of examples:
Note that depending on what features of SMB sharing you need you might have to edit the samba configuration in itself, zfs will only make the specific filesystem available but won't deal with other things like authentication and authorization.
5)when you need to access the data, reconnect the storage
Expose one disk to the network and and sync that one to it's back-up.
Typically hot swap hard disk brackets are intended for incidental maintenance purposes and   not for daily use.
Your requirements seems pretty strict and , i guess, you are trying to keep the budget as low as possible , but have you considered using some different kind of storage that would not require so much manual work ?
My recommendation would be to use external USB drives.
4)disconnect your storage and store it somewhere safe
I have a very similar workflow i use for my raw photos at home, I do it with USB3 sticks but the idea is the same
glusterfs - HA network storage with ability to export on SMB/NFS out of the box.
IT wil run on Linux (even if performances are not stellar ... yet) or FreeBSD or IllumOS
Problem: How do I maintain the mirror between the 2 drives in the most reliable and convenient manner?
Now you can export the volumes the way you prefer.