One thing I will warn you about: make sure you keep tabs on your disk space, especially if you are sending lots of Windows servers' event logs to your syslog server.
You could just use a free syslog server, it usually comes with most Unices including most Linux distributions, and one of the free NT syslog agents for your Windows boxes.
I like it because you can easilly set up per-host targets.
I use syslog-ng (mostly because I found it and figured it out before rsyslog became big) as my central logging server.
It reads the single-logfile which has everything in it and emails me things that I've told it to look for.
For Windows sources, I use a package called NTsyslog2, which I believe came from Google Code.
All logs go to a central logging file which I can view via web browser using loganalyzer.
Without knowing your budget or any unstated requirements, that will get you centralized logging, end of sentence.
I'd like to centralize logging for all my servers.
Take a look at the open source nxlog tool which runs on various platforms (including Windows and Linux).
Server operating systems include Windows 2003, 2008, Ubuntu and Redhat.
http://aaronwalrath.wordpress.com/2010/09/02/set-up-rsyslog-and-loganalyzer-on-centos-linux-5-5-for-centralized-logging/
I can not find the one I used when I set this up, but this should do nicely.
To parse it all, I have a shell script which I got from somewhere and then horribly mangled to fit my own specific requirements.
It can collect from EventLog, files, syslog, database etc and has a wealth of other features.
Do you have any other requirements, or is centralized logging all you need?
This makes it much easier to sort through dense logs if you only have to do it one host at a time.
Please only answer if you have had experience using the product, I've already done a google search!
I set up the classic "messages" and "maillog" destinations that get everything from all sources, and then each individual source gets its own collection of dated files.
I think Splunk is too expensive, has anyone set up something like this using open source or reasonably priced software.
You might be interested in my example syslog-ng configuration for Linux.