If only for the "I told you so" opportunity when things do go wrong.
Ensure the big boss agrees to this before doing anything in writing (not verbal, but in writing).
(It usually will not take long for that to happen.)
But if something (no matter how trivial) gets fucked up on the PC it will be a full wipe/re-install.
Is giving a VP administrator permissions on a PC covered and permitted by the policy?
IT won't attempt to trouble-shoot as there is no telling what you have messed up.
There isn't much you can do at that level other than tout your standardization argument.
It may be worthwhile to give them a scare some week or 2 after getting admin rights: Slip a false positive in the temporary internet files.
Email over typical scenarios of potential issues if one were to have admin rights.
I don't really have the time for a re-install.. You do have a recent backup of your data I trust ?"
Make sure you have this in writing from the big boss:
Still, inform them, in writing that you consider this a major bad idea.
Also make sure they are aware that on any sign of network trouble (virus outbreak) his PC will be the first suspect and be subjected to a time-consuming full virus-scan from clean boot-media.
And make absolutely sure that he himself is responsible for backups of any local data on the PC.
Policies exist for a reason and must not be violated on the whim of a higher-up.
I'd push back if I could and at the VERY least, get all of this in writing to CYA.
If you cave and give the VP what he wants you have violated the company's policy, which in itself is bad enough.
Common one is viruses infecting entire network, therefore leading to loss of data, business and financial implications.
Make clear how long a full re-install is going to take.
And as for containment, just ensure that no one hears of this or else they'll all want it (happened to me!).
When the virus-scanner goes berserk confiscate the PC for a full virus-scan and mutter something along the lines of "I hope I can clean this...
I don't know your company or any background but generally in a situation like this you are basically either screwed and should find yourself another job where (reasonable) policies are adhered to, or you should convince your VPs boss that this is not the way to handle things.
But also any problems that can and will arise from this will be your fault, no matter what you get in writing and no matter how often you get to say "I told you so."
If you don't cave and instead comply with the policy you will anger the higher-ups and that may cost you in the future as well.
Have you mentioned the whole standardized vs. non-standardized aspects of allowing this?
You can get admin access if you absolutely want it.
Of course: If the CEO or company owner doesn't back you on this you are screwed.