If another monitor will work through the same adapter or the same monitor won't work with another PC, then it's obviously monitor's fault.
You have at least two cheaper alternatives to buying a new adapter: use VGA-VGA cable or HDMI-DVI adapter.
It means there's some piece of electronics inside, and electronics sometimes just fail.
On the control panel/screen resolution, I only see one display, but if I go to the devices bar on the charm bar, it says "Second Screen", and clicking on it allows me to change the projector settings (like windows+p) but if I extend anything then nothing appears on the monitor even if I can move the mouse off screen.
If everything will be back to normal, then it's the adapter.
If you'll see anything, then you can try replacing just the backlight inverter.
Later in the evening I checked the adapter that connects the short HDMI from my HDTV to my Laptop and notice that adapter was halfway connected, once I connected the Adapter the Display for the second monitor (HDTV) turned on with no problem at all.
I think everything is fine on your laptop, the problem lies in the adapter or monitor.
If it won't work, then you should try it without the adapter.
It has an intel i7 with integrated graphics and a GeForce GT 525M card.
I had the same problem as well, and I've tried everything and nothing worked.
It is also possible that your monitor's backlight is dead.
But there's a change you won't have to replace it.
My second monitor (an HP S2031 monitor) has stopped being recognized by my laptop, a Dell XPS 15 running Windows 8.
(DVI can carry digital signal and is compatible with HDMI, so you can use passive adapters here)
HDMI uses pure digital signal, while VGA is pure analog.
First thing to try is to connect another monitor through the same adapter.
Once your monitor detect, just again you can connect your power card/power connection to your laptop.
Previously it had been working fine using an hdmi cable and a hdmi to vga port adapter but now my laptop will not recognize the monitor at all whether I reboot the computer, disconnect or reconnect the cables, and the monitor doesn't react or detect the computer no matter what I do.
Adapter has to actively convert signal for this to work.