I tried disabling 'Monitor file and program activity on your computer' in 'Real-time protection' and it seemed to solve the problem.
You can recover from this problem using "cleanup" in Tortoise SVN.
NB I get the errors with indexing paused anyway, so there may be another factor.
I am still getting the errors, but I thought this might be a helpful piece of info towards the solution.
I 'think' it might have something to do with the AV programs monitoring program activity.
From this popup I can see my C drive with and expand and collapse arrow.
I had renamed a file from "Map" to "map" and committed it.
In my case it was fixed by going into Repo-Browser and deleting the file "map".
If you run the cleanup command on the containing directory, it will temporarily fix the problem.
What I have found is that if I go to the indexing options in Windows 7, and click 'Modify', a new popup appears.
(I've been able to do large check-outs consistently since I've changed the options.)
I'm also going to turn off the indexing mishegas, toute-suite.
What helped was configuring the Windows Indexing Service to not index my SVN/source code directories.
I prefer the 2nd, so that MS SE still monitors for potential malicious activity anyway.
It seems like that MS SE 'thinks' a malicious script is running and it stops it.
The commit worked fine but Checking Out failed with the "directory is corrupt" error.
I had the same problem (using MS Security Essentials).
Neither did downgrading to TortoiseSVN 1.5.10 (that only had the consequence of not being able to read the checked out repository directories any more.
From there, I did some other testing and found that I could leave the option on and still have successful checkouts by configuring 'Excluded Processes' to include "C:\Program Files\TortoiseSVN\bin\TortoiseProc.exe" "C:\Program Files\TortoiseSVN\bin\TSVNCache.exe"
I have a directory - C:\Users\\workspace\ - where I checkout projects.
Find the directory(ies) that are giving you problems and descend into them.
I found that tip here: http://schleichermann.wordpress.com/2009/12/09/svn-tortoisesvn-cant-move-the-file-or-directory-is-corrupted-and-unreadable-windows-7/
I was getting the exact same error, but also another error when Updating ("Cannot find the file specified").
Presumably this should disable indexing on this directory.
I am running Windows 7 x64 and have McAfee installed.
So I still had the original un-renamed file ("Map") in version control.
I had the same problem, but with 32-bit TortoiseSVN (1.6.6 on Win7 x64).