If building the main Guest Additions kernel module fails, make sure that all the prerequisites    have been installed correctly.
These commands will install two files "vboxvideo_drv.so" and "vboxvideo_drv.la" to your Xorg module directory.
Getting Video Capbilities in a CentOS 7 VM (can be modified to apply to other Linux distributions also):
Obtaining, Compiling and Installing the "vboxvideo" driver
A. Download a version, newer than or made for the presently installed VirtualBox host program
There are a few prerequisites for installing the Guest Additions that are available via the OS's native software repository program.
Search through the VirtualBox download repository: https://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/
To verify this, log into the OS and open the Settings menu to the Displays section.
Otherwise, reinstall them and attempt to run the installer again.
Open a terminal and use the "cd" command to navigate to the root of the CD/DVD folder.
After selecting a folder, look for the "VBoxGuestAdditions x.xx.iso" file and download it
Uncompress the downloaded files and navigate the terminal into the folder "xf86-video-vbox-..."
completely (auto-resize is still broken but I can live with this for now).
Start the VM and mount the downloaded .iso file as a CD/DVD device in the VM Devices pane.
Log into the terminal and use the following command to check the "Xorg" log:
Look for any entries regarding the "vboxvideo" device.
Restart the VM from inside the Guest OS and allow it to boot entirely.
Included are some links of reference and further support.
Once downloaded or copied, copy the file to the X11 folder.
The file in the link below is a compressed tarball of the "vboxvideo" driver source files:
The monitor label should read "VBX" and clicking on the label will allow adjustment of screen resolution.
Note: The kernel module "vboxvideo.ko" is installed with the Guest Additions and does not need to be adjusted for this.
These driver files were available from an a repository by OpenIndiana for a open-source version of their own Solaris-based OS, that was still usable in RHEL-based Linux.
There should now be video and other guest capabilities.
Verify that the "Xorg.conf" file in Step 3A matches the one in the "/etc/X11/" folder on the Guest OS.
If the boot procedure hangs after completing the guide, switch to a different terminal window by pressing the "Alt" and "Fx" keys simultaneously where x is a number from 2-6 (i.e.
The VirtualBox Guest Additions is setup to generate its own Xorg.conf file at the end of the install.
Verify that the proper "vboxvideo_drv.so" file compiled in Step 2b as this is meant to be compatible with the latest version of the X server available on CentOS 7.
I created an account just because I was having the same issues and I figured out some things along the way that might help others.
Be sure to type "yes" for the install commands or use the "-y" option flag
For RHEL-based Linux, use the following with "yum":
B. Compiling and installing the "vboxvideo" driver
Download and Install a compatible version of VirtualBox Guest Additions
Verify that the "vboxvideo_drv.so" file compiled in Step 2b is in the proper folder.
- For any issues regarding incorrect syntax in the "Xorg.conf":
The present version of the X Server is found using the command:
A link to a working Xorg.conf file is given below.
So to start, I am running a CentOS 7 VM in VirtualBox 4.xx and the video driver is recognized with my guest additions working almost