It will not increase drive throughput, but it will be used as buffers.
If you get a newer generation drive then you will often find a few of of these and that will result in a higher speed.
About the RAM upgrade: it won't be necessary, but may be a good idea.
Bigger one will improve your read/write times for big files, but generally won't affect small file operations/everyday tasks.
Some drive models are just better and some are worse.
(Sure they are a bit bigger but better than losing files because of knocking things down...
Of course it's not only the rpm and capacity that make a difference.
Less swapping = better performance, but also more RAM = slower hibernating/restoring from hibernation.
I use my laptop for storing my digital photographs, and only have about 14 GB of file storage left on the original hard drive.
That's purely theoretical, but that's actually what struck me after I have replaced my laptop's HDD.
HDD platters are always of the same physical size, no matter what's the drive's capacity.
And newer drives are often bigger, so this will coincide with both a faster and a larger drive.
As others already said, a bigger drive will be faster.
So if you have enough (I have 32gb at work, 16 at home), everything will just pop up.
Should I also increase RAM from 4 to 8 GB (the limit for my 64-bit, Windows 7, Asus A54C laptop)?
If you want a faster HDD, go with WD Black Scorpion.
Oh and please, use an online backup solution like Crashplan or Carbonite.
But you should get to the core of this problem: Get a NAS, and use a LAN cable.
Fast-spinning drives, on the other hand, will give you better seek times, thus making operations faster for smaller/heavily fragmented files.
Bigger hard drive will very likely have better performance than the smaller one.
No ram will go to waste as any modern OS just uses it up as a file cache.
The nett result is a faster laptop and RAM is relative cheap.
Windows 7 should be just fine with 4 GB RAM (and Windows 8 would probably do even better), but if you like to have a lot of tabs (30+) open in your browser, more RAM will cause your OS to swap less data to the hard drive.
I have a 750 GB external hard drive, but am leery of relying on it for primary storage as I tend to knock things over and it has already crashed once and I lost a lot of the files.
7200 rpm drives will be more noisy and will drain your battery faster.
Now a newer drive will tend to come with higher density or more platters.
Because of higher rpm I have expected the drive to perform about 33% better (7200/5400=1,(3)), but it turned out it's almost twice as fast as the old one.
I wanted better performance and more storage space, so I got new 750 GB 7200 rpm drive.
If you're fine with your current performance, go for a 5400 rpm drive (for example WD Green).
For a laptop you should also consider other factors, such as loudness and power consumption.
So, if you take two HDDs, first one two times bigger than the other, and spin them at the same RPM, both heads will read paths of identical length, but for the bigger drive that path will contain two times more data!
No, the higher capacity itself should have no influence at all.
It means that bigger hard drives have bigger data density.
I am looking at a 1 TB internal hard drive, but am concerned if storing so much data will affect the computer's performance.
Performance will increase it you can access the data faster, either by:
There are small box like NASs with 2disks in them.