I know that if I tried to turn off the page file, I would not enjoy it one bit.
Also, it should be noted that when there is a page file, much of the Windows runtime is offloaded there for most of the time.
Of course, maxing RAM is a good parallel optimization.
So if you really want to, try leaving it off for a while and see what happens, you can always turn it back on again later.
http://social.answers.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/w7performance/thread/0bd8a75c-2607-4468-8342-c35ea82ea670
Disabling the page file will prevent this behavior.
I would say enable but move it to a second drive, preferably one not in use by some other I/O hog.
While it's needed in memory, it isn't needed at the moment.
The reason your performance increased is because you were forcing the whole system to be loaded into RAM, which is admittedly much faster.
Pretty soon almost all of your RAM is used as file cache for the torrent instead of your other applications.
Some games require you to have a page file even when it's not really needed, I noticed this recently when trying to play a game demo I downloaded from Steam.
Putting it in the swap file may means it takes longer to access, but it leaves more RAM free for the programs you are actually using.
Having virtual memory on isn't going to add any more addresses to the system, and having it off means I never have to wait for Windows to swap in or out.
That has often given me better speed than disabling the pagefile entirely.
Windows XP flushes minimized applications to disk like crazy.. try it yourself, start downloading a large torrent and minimize everything.
In Windows Vista and Windows 7 though, the system handles this scenario much, much better.. so I'm not sure disabling the page file in these versions will do much of a difference.
*"That paragraph was a fair amount of speculation" /disclaimer ;)
No matter how much RAM you have, there will be scenarios when a page file is, at the very least, useful.
Personally, when I have plenty of RAM, I prefer to go without a paging file.
However, my guess is that when you start using a bunch of programs at once, especially memory-heavy ones like Firefox and your Photoshop, that improvement will go right out the door.
I disable the swap file on 32-bit Windows systems with 4GB of physical memory.
Even though I had 6 gigs of RAM available the game refused to start until I created a tiny, tiny page file.. sigh
However, it is possible that you will never encounter that problem simply due to your computing habits.