Remember to make a backup just in case anything goes wrong!
It definitely fixed the root lookup in network shared folders for me.
Apparently, this solved a LAN lookup congestion in Windows 2000 and seems to be working on Windows XP as well.
That is, does it have two active network interfaces?
If that returns instantly (and you haven't already "primed the pump" via explorer), then I would suspect something to do with your view settings in Explorer, which I will answer separately.
I've seen this happen before and it was a NETBIOS name issue (can happen even if you use the IP) -- try adding the computer name to your HOSTS file and see if it still happens.
You can try running net view \\192.168.1.101 from the command line.
It can be especially problematic if both interfaces are eventually part of the same network (e.g.
If this is the case, then the network services might be trying to reach that IP over both interfaces (and waiting for the wrong one to time out) before showing you anything.
Of course it could be another issue but this is something easy/quick to try.
a laptop connected via a cable, but also with a wifi connection to a hub on the same LAN).
Although this is a pretty old question, my solution for this (seemingly) problem was the following (refer to the original article for further info):
Additionally, there are some registry tweaks that can be done to improve it further, however I cannot remember the details.
That's what sped up network share browsing for me.
Not sure why this happens unless maybe Windows tries to match the IP address to a NETBIOS hostname.
In the registry editor, open the key HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/Software/Microsoft/Windows/Current Version/Explorer/RemoteComputer/NameSpace/{D6277990-4C6A-11CF-8D87-00AA0060F5BF} and delete it.
Here is an article with a bunch of workarounds to check :
If you have the "Explorer Bar -> Folders" enabled, turn it off before you do the steps you describe.
Otherwise you are forcing Explorer to show you the Windows network structure when all you really want is the list of shares.