It’s ugly, but less ugly than what was there (a duplicated hard-coded path), or than any other suggestion I could find.
It was not acceptable for me to just apt remove openjdk-11-jdk-headless or update-alternatives --config java and choose Java 8 as the default.
It certainly would be nicer to have this be a setting in org.jenkins-ci.plist, but that would still require changes to jenkins-runner.sh, so this was the minimal change for our purposes.
The caveat with editing the startup file is that it might be overwritten when Jenkins is updated: I'm going to have to keep an eye on it.
The default is to just run java, thus relying on what's in the PATH environment variable.
Like a linux version of this: https://dzone.com/articles/make-jenkins-windows-service
You must then run systemctl daemon-reload in order for the changes to be picked up.
Depending on the distribution, you will have one of "/etc/sysconfig/jenkins" or "/etc/default/jenkins".
    I added/changed the following to the beginning and end of /Library/Application\ Support/Jenkins/jenkins-runner.sh:
I've found guides on Windows servers how to do this, but nothing that relates or transfers to Linux Jenkins servers.
This is specific to the Macintosh installer version (for the benefit of those brought here, as I was, by a web search), and the path is specific to the Java version which Jenkins is willing to run, which needs to coexist with the Java version we need to test with.
You can specify a custom Java executable by editing the line:
Usually all the options are commented out to show what the file can configure.
This will have a property to set the java home location.
One way to accomplish this is editing the startup file: /etc/init.d/jenkins.
This is what I had to do in order to make Jenkins use Java 8 on a Ubuntu system with Java 11 set as the default.
Is there a way to change the JRE used by the Jenkins server on linux?
The Linux machine has a Java 1.8 JDK/JRE installed, but I cant find a way to tell the Jenkins server to use it?
A Jenkins server is running under Java 1.7 on a linux machine and I need to change it to 1.8 so that I can run a specific plugin.