After the customer has reconfigured their VPN device, they can no longer connect to it over the internet.
My question: does the 6224 (or whatever router is doing this job) have to understand GRE in order for the connection through it to work?
(The IP space that the customer is using has also changed.)
These routers serve (and served) public IPs to clients, and just acted as routers to the upstream provider.
The 6224 was selected for routing duties as the new connection has a datarate of 150Mb/s and the operator of the network did not want to limit themselves to the 100Mb/s that the ciscos would provide.
To be perfectly honest, I'm having a little trouble imagining what the network looks like without a proper router between the customer and the upstream provider.
So you're saying that the XP laptop is configured as the VPN endpoint with the same parameters as the VPN device and that the laptop works and VPN connections from the outside are able to be established to the laptop?
How about setting up the VPN device from scratch and trying again?
What device provides inbound\outbound security, NAT, etc.
If so, then I'd say that should be telling you that the 6224 is not the problem.
Have you checked all of the settings on the VPN device to make sure they're correct?
If the end-point devices require GRE, then the intermediate devices will also need to support GRE too.
Failing that, is there anything else obvious I should be looking at to figure out why their VPN device does not work?
It is acting as a router -- there are no ACLs or firewall rules or anything like that going on.
As a switch, using it's out of the box configuration, the 6224 doesn't know and shouldn't care about the traffic that's passing through it.
Was there some on-by-default-magic in the Ciscos that was handling this for me?
I have replaced a mess of Cisco routers with a single Dell PowerConnect 6224.
We have confirmed the IP parameters by replacing the VPN device with a XP laptop.
Other customers, using what I presume are standard IPsec VPNs, are operating on the same link without incident.
Prior to the replacement, a customer had a VPN appliance that used GRE and IPsec to connect back to their head office.
The customer uses the 6224 as their next-hop to the internet.
With the same parameters, the laptop can use the internet, and is reachable from the internet as would be expected.
Upgrading the capability of the ciscos (or rather, replacing them with ciscos with the required data rate) was considered too expensive; the 6224 was selected instead.