I work with adults who have had (sometimes multiple) traumatic brain injuries from car crashes or being hit by a car as a pedestrian.
My specific job is teaching wood shop and art-related vocational skills, while my wife teaches warehouse work in a different building.
The job is equally stressful and emotionally exhausting.
Having to deal with a 200 pound adult with the temperament of a toddler can even be dangerous.
The job pays less than the starting pay at McDonald's and the company treats the staff like prisoners along with the clients.
Yeah, I hang out in the /ems and /nursing subreddits.
They’re worked like dogs paid like shit and there’s an incredibly rigid hierarchy where everyone looks down on the next level.
Some are more or less just a little goofy or forgetful, but have anger management issues.
It all really depends on what part of the brain was injured and how severely.
So it's a wild hit and miss of ability and disability.
Our job is to figure out what these folks can do, what they can be trained to do, and get them out into the workforce in some capacity if we can.
For most of them that's never going to happen.
But they're paid pretty fairly for the work they do, whether it's one day a week or five.
The funny thing is, the vast majority of them are extremely positive, optimistic, and grateful to be alive.
There are varying degrees of cognitive disability among the group -- some are frozen in time at the age they had their accident, some regressed to childhood, and some are essentially unchanged -- but it's also coupled with various degrees of physical disability.
One guy is essentially a terminator.
He's made almost entirely of titanium and carbon fiber, has one eye, and a tendency to get super emotional about his life.
But he also walks, very slowly and unsteadily, with a walker.
Others are in wheelchairs.
One of my clients lost his senses of sight and smell and is otherwise basically unchanged.
I can’t even imagine.
If a car accident were to reduce me to a toddler like mentally, I hope someone I love just fucking takes me out or helps me get there.
One of my favorites is a guy who is 30-something years old who had his accident at about 4 years of age.
He uses a walker, has the mentality of a 4 year old, but with 30 years of experience.
He's super affectionate and happy, laughs all the time.
But he can't have caffeine or sugar.
The other day he stole a Mt.
Dew -- the way a devious 4 year old might -- and chugged it while no one was looking.
Then he hugged me and said he loves me, and shit his pants.
This is going to be a problem in the US.
Pay is shit for teachers and more so for assistants.
Teachers, unlike cops, can be held personally liable if they make a single mistake and the parents of special needs kids can have hair triggers for lawsuits.
Why take on the emotional exhaustion, low pay, and legal risk to teach special needs when you could go elsewhere?
We are leaching off teachers and assistants who genuinely love to help struggling kids - and that's the only reason we have the people we have today.
It won't last.
The UK is a preview for the US.