I remember watching a documentary on what lead up to the first nuclear bombings of another nation, and I recall that the Imperialist Japanese government was training every citizen in Kamikaze techniques.
If I'm not mistaken(I'm no historian) this was actually their strategy in ww2 when America was going to invade.
Inflict so much death and despair that the enemy loses the will to fight, even if we can win.. so we dropped the bombs 🤷.
We're you the one that brought it up in another thread?
If so thank you.
If not?
Keep up the good work.
Haha Michigan here.
This was a topic of conversation just this morning in our office.
A co worker genuinely told someone this being nice, and was horrified when we told her to not say that if she ever went down south.
She was very concerned that she messed up.
The leaflets didn't work, they laughed it off, so the States dropped the nukes.
It was an immediate surrender and in country development timescale they pretty much changed overnight into Western-style democratic capitalism.
Their plan was to fly a massive amount of planes over major American cities that would blacken the skies and attack them full force without surrender or retreat in hopes of crippling the States.
That said, I think japan would do really well against China in modern day, but hope it doesn't come to war.
Pretty sure the bullied country in question here is Japan, which had virtually no modern military spending up until now, who also had missiles lobbed at them for years from North Korea.
In response, the US threatened the Imperialist government with an experimental weapon they would unleash on them that could destroy entire cities with one explosion.
They did this by flying leaflets over Nagasaki and Hiroshima warning the citizens to put a stop to their governments plans/telling the government to back down.
You can also say the same for South Korea, which has whole artillery batteries pointed at their capital at all times from a totalitarian regime that's supposed to be "isolationist".