Well if "obviously Poland is very keen to donate some Leopards", as Mr Wallace put it, he could maybe provide the polish government with the adress to send the official request for export to.
The people at the german ministry for the economy are probably very eager to work on it, if they ever actually receive anything!
Just send it here:
Either way, real leadership we're seeing.
I'm glad the German government made all those speeches about stepping up, being a military leader for Europe, and grabbing the bull by the horns on this matter.
Really ringing true with the policy of "we won't do anything unless you do."
/s.
You're listening to something Röttgen says, which is already the first mistake.
He's an opposition politician from Merkel's party with no special insight into what the government actually does or thinks beyond what is stated publicly.
He has a vested interest in talking bad about the current government and he tends to do that a lot.
But maybe the polish gov has run out of stamps, or misplaced the letter, because theres still no actual fucking request to export Leopard 2's, and day to day it seems more likely that this was just another PiS-stunt ahead of elections.
People keep saying that there are no export requests like they have a personal database for all official military export correspondence for Germany they can reference.
The source of that quote is the same German government which has made it abundantly clear in press announcements previously that they did not endorse the delivery of MBTs, and even rebuked a country for suggesting their provision without asking (Spain).
There is little reason to believe they have not privately rejected or shot down any such requests, considering they had no qualms doing it publicly.
And they have been caught obfuscating such things in the past during this conflict.
They also publicly stated they don't care that the UK was sending Challengers, they want the US to take the initiative and send tanks (notably a goalpost shift from their previous policy of just not being first, to again avoid having to send tanks).
But sure, Germany really just wants to provide them, and no one has asked Darn shame How convenient it aligns with current German policy on the matter though.
Go figure.
Know the We will fight corruption and clear the house of bad guys politicians?
Drain the swamp and such.
PiS is this.
Because thats not how german bureaucracy works.
If theres a request, it'll gonna get worked on.
If there isn't it won't.
Probably would even break some laws.
That aside, with all arguable mistakes the current gov has done - spite isn't really their thing.
Scholz is boring, overcautious, slow, but I can guarantee you that guy doesn't give two fucks about "pressuring" Poland or anybody.
Just not how he works.
Even if the german gov could, they wouldn't do that - it wouldn't achieve anything.
I've noticed a lot of Germans sensitive about the focus and attention on Germany.
Welcome to being viewed as leaders.
It comes with extra accountability and criticism.
They purposfully auggested sending Patriot systems to Ukraine, way before it was public knowledge.
They knew it was on the table and coming.
They also knew Germany will say not possible at that date.
They also knew that the opposition will mock their suggestion.
You have to remember that it's election period in Poland and it's easy to get votes by bashing Germany.
It's why the whole "Germany needs to pay WW2 reparations to Poland" thing is back in the news again.
German gov has made it absolutely clear they will approve any request to send Leopard 2's to Ukraine.
There simply has not been a request or anything regarding a polish delivery yet.
Setting up production lines for tanks takes years, which is why the US army has never stopped producing the M1A1 - they wanted to be able to produce more short term.
Lastly, if Poland got attacked, german troops would be in Poland in <24h.
The argument that we'd be "safe" is kinda bullshit, no offense.
Ask Scholz that.
Still, thanks to the german Rinausch and direct deliveres, 30+ MBT's and 70 IFV's are already in Ukraine, with 40 more IFV's incoming.