In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
shit, the sheer number of republicans trying to convince me he's somewhere between the antichrist and a doddering imbecile (both hilarious notions, coming from the same gang that gave us sippy-cup Caligula) is enough for me to know he's getting some decent things done.
Ontop of that, biden could have crafted a great deal without Congress because technically the rail workers are federal employees.
This came from the covid era mandates to vax.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
While I think the rail workers should get sick leave and a fair contract, the contract was accepted by most of the unions.
I believe it was only 3 or so that said no out of the 10ish (again, going from memory).
So there’s that aspect.
The other aspect is that a rail strike would have been devastating for the broader economy.
Factory production would have basically ground to a halt… again (covid being the first one last year).
That would have very very likely kicked us into a recession with millions of people losing their jobs.
So with those points, yes stopping the rail strike was a good thing for the country.
A few people didn’t get everything they wanted, but they still got more than they were going to get going in, like a 24% pay raise, and they did get some other concessions from the rail bosses.
The problem is the union heads accepting the deal while the workers where unplessed by this deal.
Evedent by the call for disposing of the union heads and organizing of the workers to elect a new leader.
If there job field could cripple the economy...
I think they should receive everything they asked for plus extra.