There was a video posted interviewing some soldiers and they said it messed them up how so many Russians just walked to their death.
Some would attack without magazines in their rifles.
Others just walked towards them in the open.
Some seemed so oblivious to everything that they must have been on some powerful drugs.
Each one of these, they had to kill and the bodies piled up.
And each time it's the same thing over and over.
Cheaper or not, alcohol does not make you efficient, just unconscious of danger.
Not a buff at all during war time.
This is the Russians.
They have the worst of everything, including drugs.
The Russians have many alcoholics and the kids do stuff like Krokidle, which is injecting a fun way to die into your body.
Considering narcotics history in warfare I wouldn't be surprised if it's more than alcohol, alcohol can be used for stuff like this, but it's much less reliably effective than say amphetamines which is what the nazis used.
On the other hand, amphetamines, cocaine, and a lot of other similar drugs can improve your performance for a short time.
Absolutely, didn't mean to imply that only nazis used it, they are just a prime example of drug cocktails for soldiers.
There are some historians that attribute the blitzkriegs speed to that drug cocktail, hence my focus on them.
Of course, as I said in another comment I wasnt intending to say that the allies or any of the other participants didn't use them, just that there is a ton of notes about the nazis drug cocktail being important to their initial speed.
There is nothing redeeming about an illegal invasion force from a criminal empire that is raping, murdering and rampaging through your country.
The world would be more a peaceful and better place if all these invaders are killed and Russia is destroyed as a country for centuries.
It doesn't make me happy or gleeful to say that though, the fact makes me sad and angry at Putin.
Even I said on reddit a few years back: for Putin to compromise the office of the President of the United States was one of the most successful peacetime covert operations of the last 100 years.
But Putin got so used to gambling, and so much hubris that he couldn't take it when his warplans were stymied, so he made a big gamble on propaganda and faulty info, and completely lost the bet and he went 'all in' on this one.