In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
thing is, they're like deranged religious zealots and cult members who take reality and run it through kraken processors.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
We have a sitting Supreme Court Justice who was confirmed while votes were being cast for the next president.
She was unable to name the rights that are protected by the first amendment.
Shes supposed to be a constitutional scholar.
It isn't a very large document.
You mean the right to petition the government for redress of greivances.
Basically, the right to peaceful protest.
Jan 6 showed us they have no Fn clue what that means.
Its the First Amendment, not something obsure.
She's a Supreme Court Justice.
She wasn't stopped in the street and asked at random, she was at her confirmation hearing which one can presume she prepared for.
during her confirmation hearing she was asked to name the five freedoms in the 1st amendment and was able to name speech, press, religion and assembly.
she knew there was another but couldn't think of it.
i see it as one of those brain slip that happens to everyone (except you, i guess) but you take it as proof she's an idiot.
i believe that's a mistake.
there's ample evidence that speaks against your view (she graduated notre dame law school, not just summa cum laude but first in her class, etc) and underestimating the people you're up against is a sure way to get your ass kicked.
i hope you reconsider, because we're on the same side and i want my companions to be as effective as possible, but i'm not putting any more effort into you.
I suppose I just have higher expectations of what are intended to be the premier constitutional scholars of our country.
The closest thing I've taken to a legal class is Government in high school over a decade ago and I know what the 1st amendment protects.
I'm not saying people are infallible, and it is dismissive of you to suggest that I did.
I'm sure she is a very intelligent woman who happens to have drastically different world views from myself, that doesn't mean much of anything when it comes to being a Justice.
She had negligible experience on the bench, and she got stopped up on the first amendment, full stop.
again, i am not defending her policies at all, but it's a HUGE mistake to underestimate your opponent - that's a great way to get your ass kicked.
she graduated notre dame law school, one of the top in the nation, and not just summa cum laude but first in her class.
i wouldn't be quick to call her ignorant.