I think the issue is that most of the migrant workers know the conditions (or ability to even find work) in their home country is the same/worse than staying in Qatar.
That is why the moved to Qatar in the first place.
The problem with Qatar is that it is a rich country with one of the highest per capita incomes in the world and wanted to host the World Cup to show the rest of the world that it has achieved equality with all the industrialized nations.
But at the same time, it’s labor laws/regulations are about 50-100 years behind those countries it wants to be equals with.
It's not about that.
There is huge financial and familial pressure in South Asia to provide for your family.
People will die rather than humiliate themselves by not being able to care for family.
idk, just look at the US or Canada they also treat migrant workers like shit.
the US uses illegal Mexican labour which is basically slave wages.
it's a double standard where people overlook their own countries human rights abuses while shining a light onto others.
I mean just look at drugs and how it's treated like a criminal issue and how people are forced into treatment.
it's really no different than persecuting lgbtq peoples just for existing yet people in the west will downplay their discrimination because "reasons".
As for drugs, it is the same issue but we can at least vote to change our policies at the local and national level and change is happening right now because any individual can be a catalyst for real change in America, even if it doesn’t happen right away.
Meanwhile, in Qatar even just possessing drugs will put you in jail for a long time while in US only selling drugs will put you in jail for most time.
As for sending people to rehab, that is better than jail and a system Qatar also doesn’t have.
No question the US has issues.
However, we have come a long way thanks to the activism of people like Cesar Chavez and also have actual institutions like the National Labor Relations Board, the National Labor Relations Act, OSHA, and an independent judicial system where even illegal immigrants can sue employers which Qatar and other gulf counties don’t have yet.
I’m sure in 4 years everyone is going to be bitching about the world cup being hosted in a country with the world’s largest prison population, that uses incarcerated people for slave labor, that separates children at the border, that ignored migrant workers dying in meat packing plants during COVID, and that’s to this day, drone striking children around the world, right?
Right?
We are not perfect, no country is.
Our history is full of shameful periods like all other countries, but migrant workers are not slaves and have the same rights under the constitution as citizens.
This is not true in Qatar, not even close.
Or do we only complain about human rights in brown countries?
While there is plenty of criticism to throw at Qatar, and at FIFA, the overall narrative surrounding the Qatar world cup is rooted in Eurocentrism and racism.
US is the only country in the world where all your neighbors are from every country in the world and are equal in the eyes of the law.
At least the US is allowed to criticize our government without risk of going to jail.
Every country has it’s own shame/flaws, but the difference is that if citizens actually have a say in government are more likely to reform for the better.
We’re not perfect but we are getting better every day, or at least trying to.
We are allowed to acknowledge our own issues like the prison system.
We write about them in the press, politicians introduce bills (but it has to be done at the local level because each state runs its own prison system and each city makes its own rules/policing).
Qatar you literally can’t even write an article about the labor issues because it’s illegal.
We are not the same… hopefully with time the Qatari people realize that but in autocracies that probably won’t happen until economic pressure effect the average citizen.
US had to fight a civil war then had 150 years of discrimination before things actually started to improve so I understand it will take some time for the Middle East to realize what universal rights are.
It basically took us hundreds of years to do the same.
persecution is persecution and it wasn't long ago that being gay or smoking weed would have seen your life ruined if people found out.
the fact that people downvote is just more proof they'll hide their own shit and not see their own prejudices and be ok with being hypocrites when it comes to their own actions that support human rights abuses.
a person can't just have a stable life, they're fucked over by being criminalized and killed by doctors who want to "help them".
migrant workers are treated like shit, pay out the ass for subpar accommodations and let's be serious, the western world relys on slave labour and is ok with it in its supply chains if it means saving money.