In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Nah, as soon as you make it so you can't question someone's gender identity you've made it so a therapist can't try to talk someone out of their gender dysphoria issues.
Say it's a small percentage, but there are enough detransitioner stories that already talk about therapists being way too quick to go along with someone's new gender identity.
If they ran the risk of losing their license, things would get even worse.
Also, when you ban conversion therapy (or even questioning someone's sexual orientation) you'll just get less kids and adults in legit therapy, and more in some kind of unlicensed pseudo therapy run by the church or whatever.
Their disingenuous attempt in this case to pretend Republicans are not attempting to normalize a barbaric practice promoted by homophobic social conservatives constitutes par for the course Republican dishonesty.
As the article notes, reputable modern medical authorities—namely, the American Medical Association and the American Psychiatric Association— have unequivocally denounced the practice that Republicans want to normalize.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
What is the Republican endgame?
Is it Rick Scott's plan?
Because it would be nice to know exactly what this country would look like if they got everything they wanted.
That's the platform they need to put forward so people know what we're truly up against.
Human lives are of little to no consequence to the GOP when pandering for votes from the homophobic underbelly of America.
The practice of attempting to change a person’s sexual orientation constitutes homophobic psychobabble with as much modern medical value as the medieval practice of drilling holes in someone’s head to vacate “evil spirits” supposedly causing assorted illnesses.
Sexual orientation is inherent in everyone from birth.
No reputable medical or psychiatric/psychological authority endorses the notion that.