In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
We live in a world where we do no not tolerate the violation of personal property very well.
We also have highly litigious people here in the US and very greedy, rapacious people, born into wealth or desperately seeking it, all in the same system which allows them to pursue their wealth provided they play by some minimal set of rules and/or don't get caught.
It's that obvious.
It's that fuckin' obvious, right?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
At some point hospitals simply have to lower costs.
I say this as someone who spends a fair amount of time reviewing hospital cost reports.
The idea that CARES act and similar funding should be maintained for any hospital that has negative margins is not sustainable.
Other countries manage to keep their hospitals' doors (including rural ones) open without spending 20% of GDP.
I worked in the medical industry many years ago as it was my first job out of college.
We won multiple exclusive state contracts to supply certain supplies.
The first big one we undercut by 50% after learning we won the bid.
We were still printing money.
The one that always sticks out with me was when I was in a meeting with our lead procurement guy.
He was able to get containers(shipping) of medically “certified” USB cables.
They cost us $0.50 and billed $30.
What’s wild is that all these places negotiate and know what insurances are willing to pay.
Some go off of percentages with a max dollar amount.
So they always overcharge knowing they’ll never get the full amount.
Then what doesn’t get covered by secondary insurance is written off.
I don't want to point this out and come off as mr. obvious cynical twat - but I will because I don't see it pointed out often enough -.
I remember thinking this seems illegal but was just a naive kid.
Always stuck with me how fucked it is.
We can get insurance for all, we just have to tackle the outrageous gouging first.
There is no solution because there cannot be one while we force humans to compete like this for resources.
It just won't be.
We're all okay with the daily liquidation of our very bodies and minds because we can't bear, in aggregate the following two stupid things -.
The gouging is where the contractors/vendors/consultants/agencies/lawyers/compliance all make their money.
That 'slack' is where the system is gettin' their beak wet.
In America, all those companies who are taking their slice in those moments of bureaucractic bullshit is the cost we pay because we have a culture which has foolishly affixed it's unending avarice to a economic system which demands we liquidate all to satisfy it.
So in pursuit of it, we have this - all these fuckin' hands, 'gouging' as you wrote, to get paid because where else are they going to capture margins?
They can't out right steal it because that's just piracy and theft, but fuck they get as close as possible as you have witnessed in your work.