In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The move by members of the Democratic National Committee was long expected, but it does not guarantee the calendar will ultimately be enacted as designed.
In December, Biden asked DNC leaders to move up South Carolina, which sealed his comeback victory in the 2020 Democratic primary, to the first slot.
PHILADELPHIA — Democrats on Saturday voted overwhelmingly to remake the party’s presidential nominating calendar, embracing President Biden’s push for South Carolina to be the first state to hold its contest in 2024, replacing Iowa amid calls for greater racial, geographic, and economic diversity in the process.
Under the new plan, New Hampshire and Nevada would hold their primaries a week later, followed by primaries in Georgia and Michigan.
The vote here Saturday morning came at the DNC’s winter meeting, where Biden and Vice President Harris spoke Friday to some of the party’s most active members from across the country.
Biden, who has yet to officially announce his reelection plans but has said he intends to run for a second term, was greeted by cheers of “four more years” as he took the stage.
Saturday’s voice vote marked the last formal step in the DNC’s efforts to fundamental overhaul the nominating calendar, as the committee’s members officially approved the new order set by Biden.
But the push to reorder the states still faces some hurdles.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It seems to be an issue that states and the DNC are still trying to figure out themselves.
Here's what some Iowa legislators had to say about the DNC decision:
Two states granted entry into the early window — that is, holding contests before a large number of states vote on “Super Tuesday” — have yet to change the dates of the primaries and have until June to do so.
Iowa Democratic Party Chair Rita Hart said her state “has been put in a position that makes it impossible to comply with both DNC rules and our own state law, which has exactly zero chance of being changed by the Republican legislature.”.
Scott Brennan, a DNC member from Iowa, said the calendar “is a mess.” He added, “Passing the calendar today accomplished nothing other than kicking a deeply flawed can down the road.”.
In New Hampshire, where state law mandates they hold the first primary, Democrats say they cannot change the date of the primary.
DNC officials have already passed rules that dictate states violating the calendar order will be punished, as will candidates who campaign in states that hold primaries outside their assigned days.
Just have another state pass a similar law so that the entire universe collapses from the ensuing paradox.
Sure beats the current state of affairs.
Do it before we have to file our taxes, please.
The first Tuesday of March should be the first primary.
Then the first Tuesday of April, then May, and finally June.
Each month 13 states and territories will vote.
The 13 would be a mix of size and demographics so that one section of the countries doesn't always vote first.
With four elections, it still becomes a process of whittling down a wide field of candidates slowly until only 1 remain.
Also, when was the last time a fringe politician with little initial financial backing made it all the way in the current system?
Biden, Clinton, Trump, Romney, McCain, Obama, Bush?
Which one of them wasn't already a favorite with a lot of financial backing going into their first primary?
Going into Iowa there were only 3 candidates, Obama, Clinton, and John Edwards.
We can basically ignore Edwards and it was already a 2 person race before the first votes were even cast.
Yeah, Clinton may have had more financial backing going into that election, but its hardly fair to call Obama an underdog when he's literally the only other candidate.
He had already out earned Biden, Dodd, and Edwards, at that point.
That's a fair point to say it's cheaper to focus on and campaign in Iowa compared to California alone, let alone 13 states at once.
But on the flip side why would a candidate want to waste resources on a state they know they aren't going to win like Iowa.
Someone like Warren could've skipped months of campaigning in Iowa, where she was always polling low, and instead focused more on the north east or west where she had a better chance of picking up early delegates.
Money in politics is a problem and it's not going to he solved or necessarily worsened by moving Primaries around.
I'm from NJ, the state that votes last.
I would voted for Sanders in both 2016 and 2020 but both times he had already dropped out by the time I cast my vote.
Randomizing it will give NJ, or NY, more of a say some years and less other years.
I would also suggest that it greats randomized each year.
So some years California and Delaware vote first at the same time.
Other year New York and Kentucky.
Some years Florida and Hawaii, etc.