Imamoglu won the local elections where he ran for mayor of Istanbul in 2019 and took it from Erdogan's party (AKP).
AKP claimed he "cheated", so they cancelled the election, taking the victory from Imamoglu who later commented "the people who are cancelling the elections are fools".
He, funnily enough, won the repeated election by a much higher margin and has been the mayor of Istanbul since then.
Remember I mentioned above that he called the people who cancelled the election "fools"?
Yeah, he's convicted of "insulting the judges" to 2 years in prison and banned from running for office.
More background, minister of interior (of AKP) called Imamoglu a fool and he replied with “the people who canceled the election are real fools”.
AKP’s district level candidates were more popular than their metropolitan candidate and got more votes.
They were happy in district/county level but not happy about loosing the metropolitan municipality.
By the way, elections were a combined one of district/county, city council and metropolitan municipality elections, done at the same time, all ballots in the same envelope - which means you could vote for one party in county/district level, for another in metropolitan level.
Also for the record that second election is the first time in the history of the metropolitan municipality that the mayor of İstanbul won a majority of the votes (54%).
No mayor has been elected with more than 50% of the vote since it became a metropolitan municipality in 1984.
Even prominent Erdogan supporters are baffled by this decision.
Some are saying Erdogan must come out and denounce it and some are even suggesting conspiracies that claim this was done as a judicial coup to Erdogan himself.
Because anyone with basic knowledge of Turkish politics can see this has been an absolute blow to Erdogan's re-election campaign.
At best, Imamoglu can still run and rally voters from this, and at worst, he'll throw his support behind the candidate that will run against Erdogan.