In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Someone on the email says this theory must be used and normalized by everyone writing about it and sending the information about it out into the zeitgeist (my words).
It outlines the Eastman theory regarding the Independent State Legislation theory although its not credited to Eastman.
Apparently she has a political group called Groundswell.
Here is an article about it that describes the power of Groundswell and includes how insane their power is:
On page 46 of the testimony, something called the 79 Day Project is mentioned.
I googled it and oh my effing god its some of the craziest shiz Ive ever read.
It is just a PDF and I dont know how to share it, but I googled “79 Day Project election” and it comes right at the top.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
So this 79 Day report was presented to Groundswell.
You know who presented the report?
Mother clucking John Eastman!
(Page 46 of the transcript).
Someone else replies “we need to reassert the powers given to the states in the Constitution” (Ie: ISL theory).
The email responses go on for a bit and then Ginni forwards the entire thing to EASTMAN!
She introduces him (Eastman) to a dude that does messaging for Groundswell.
Why does Eastman need a messaging guy?
(Pg 54).
Why did she leave on November 9th?
Ginni wouldn’t say, but the 1/6 committee suggests it is because sent out a mass email to try and persuade people in various state legislatures to be part of the coup to overturn the election by sending out fake electors.
For the record, it was Cleta Mitchell, Ginni’s best friend, that suggested Eastman to Trump’s crazy legal team (as opposed to the WH legal team) as the guy to write the “constitutional” foundation to the Independent State Legislature/fake elector scheme.
This was on Nov 5th or 6th.
If you remember Cleta was big in regards to the legal aspects of the Georgia election “fraud”.
You know who brought Cleta in on team Trump?
MARK MEADOWS.
Mark Meadows was part of Groundswell, which is how he knows everyone involved.
Here is the thing….Ginni insists to this day that there was election fraud and that she has no understanding of the whole Eastman theory.
BUT HOW DID SHE KNOW TO STOP WORKING DURING THIS VERY SPECIFIC TIME?
In the transcripts, Ginni says she went on “sabbatical” from Nov 9th until around January 20th, but of course the 1/6 committee had a ton of emails and texts that suggested otherwise.
Clearly it was her husband who told her to stop because it was going to jeopardize him and her.
He knew what everyone else knew- the ISL Eastman theory and the actions happening on the ground were a coup and he didn’t want her near it.
Clarence Thomas put all the pieces into place and got them moving, but then quickly hid once he realized it was not going as planned because there wasn’t any election fraud and therefore there was no way to get the plan to work.
Ok, that last bit is just my fun conspiracy theory, but still.
Both Ginni and Clarence are seditious trash.
Edit to update: I posted the above in the big thread from yesterday, but as I was researching I realized that Ginni lied again.
Page 124 of her transcript she states she had nothing to do with the 1/6 rally planning.
That is a lie.
According to Caroline Wren, a 1/6 organizer, Ginni was a peacemaker between the different 1/6 factions, especially in regards to Ginni’s two friends, Jenny Beth Martin- head of Tea Party Patriots and Amy Kremer- head of Women For America First.