People give Russia to much credit.
I know a lot of West Africans and they HATE the French because of the assassination of leaders, control of their currency, and a variety of other issues.
Many Africans will simply side with whoever opposes the French.
Watch some YouTube videos on France in Africa to get a bigger picture.
Many Africans in regions without French influence view France as the enemy of Africa as a whole st this point...
“Many Africans in regions without French influence view France as the enemy of Africa as a whole at this point”.
some see it as though France never gave up her colonies, only granted them a high level of autonomy but with no rights or benefits and when we try to do something in unison (at least in west Africa) suddenly France remembers “oh yea these countries are here” and comes to steal/spoil it.
example: we have ECOWAS (think EU but for west Africa, and it’s a mix of Portuguese, English and French speaking countries, but the French countries outnumber every other), we already have free movement, one passport, free trade, right to live and work etc etc, and we’ve been pushing for one currency for the whole subcontinent for the last like 20 years.
it gained traction about 3 years ago and we were moving forward with it, suddenly France comes out of nowhere and hijacks it saying they’re going to print it and “use the new currency to replace the CFA Franc” (which France still controls 80 years later) and “any other west African countries that want in can join” (of course under Frances terms).
our government along with Ghana, Liberia and the other non french speaking countries filed a complaint but the french west africans once again bought into french imperialism and coercion.
but only countries that are (functioning) democracies are allowed to be in ECOWAS so as their governments continue to violently collapse they’re automatically suspended and all the perks are taken away, and since Nigeria has been paying the bills for the last 50 years nobody here seems to care anymore about what’s happening right next to us because it’s effectively a money drain and people tend to have this “run to your French masters for help” opinion, so we’ve all decided to move on with our own personal plans.
interestingly enough 3 years later, France and the French Africans are still yet to even begin talks to implement this, almost as if France doesn’t want to.
with numerous anti-france protests, multiple coups per year, government crackdowns, mass emigration, rampant terrorism and the fact that the french west african region remains the poorest in africa and on earth i don’t think it’s what the people want, staying tied to the euro and storing their reserves in france isn’t exactly helping the case.
When the Mali junta, while being a weaker state than say Ivory coast or Senegal, asked France to leave, the french forces left without delay nor any discussion.
and also what were the french troops supposed to do?
fight Mali in their own country?
of course they left, but does Mali not still use the Franc?
I once heard an African official claim that the spread of English in their country is good because it's an international language, and that it puts them further from their French Colonial language.
As if English isn't international because it was used by colonisers.
But to be fair English is the great equaliser.