In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
For days I've been seeing right wing youtube channels with headlines like 'Hobbs RUNS from election.'
or 'Lake testimony destroys democrats election victory'.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
They’re just telling themselves lie after lie after lie as part of the alternate universe they live in, as usual.
And the whole time I read the articles and it always eludes to 'Kari Lake, without evidence... makes these claims' I don't understand what conservatives are even reading or seeing at this point.
I remember one of the right wing rags the other day quoting a part of the testimony where the Maricopa attorney asks Lake’s so-called “expert” witness if he has personal knowledge of intentional actions taken by the county that would have affected the election results.
In response, the witness says something to the effect of “I know for a FACT that had those ballots been printed correctly that Lake would have won.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They don’t know anything.
They just marinate in their ecosystem of lies and idiocy all day every day.
They considered that to be their “slam dunk.” It’s hard to overstate how ridiculously stupid that is.
They literally believe that a Republican My Pillow guy-endorsed Republican saying he “knows” the election outcome would have been different had the ballots been printed properly constitutes clear and convincing evidence that Lake actually won the election.
And that that testimony alone should be sufficient cause for a judge to hand the election to Lake, no further questions necessary.