It's slightly more complex.
Sometimes a leader can be chosen purely by MPs of their party (the people sitting in parliament) whereby they must get a certain amount of backing before they can be included on the ballot.
Then this can either go through several rounds of elimination before the MPs select a candidate or it can go to the public membership.
When they put it to the party membership (the general public that pay a small fee to support the party) there will be debates and the party membership get to vote.
There was an a disproportionate amount of coverage for this when Boris Johnson resigned.
It was prime time TV and front page news coverage for weeks but less than 200,000 people, or 0.25% of the country, could vote.
Some parties have a one-member-one-vote system, they may also allow votes from certain affiliates like trade union members.
The UK labour party does this.
Each party has its own policies for how the leader is selected.
The last two prime minister's, Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak, both were elected on the previous prime minister (Boris Johnson)'s election mandate he received in 2019.
Liz truss was elected by the membership after Boris resigned.
Shortly after her historically humiliating seven weeks in office, she resigned and was replaced by Rishi Sunak who was elected by the MPs without going to the party membership.
Sunak lost to truss in the public vote.
The public polling currently shows that the majority of the country want a general election and that the government have lost the confidence of the vast majority of the public with the labour party polling above 50% for many months and the conservative party polling in the mid to high 20s which continues to reduce.
Sunak hasn't proved very popular within his party and currently there's rumour of a change in leadership once again.
It's beyond a joke.
The party itself votes for the leader.
The party is made up of the general public who pay a fee to be a part of that party as well as the MPs.
Leadership contests are usually chosen by the entire party.
Suank, the current Prime Minister/Leader was chosen only by the MPs of the party as they needed a leader ASAP after Liz Truss's epic failure.
The general public only votes on who they want for their local MP (there are 650 constituencies and therefore 650 MPs).
Whichever party, or group of parties makes up the majority (326 MPs) forms a government.
Kind of the public vote for a local candidate either from the major parties or an independent candidate the winning candidate in each ward becomes a member of parliament (m.p).
I keep wondering, why the hell do the british keep voting for the Tories, then I look at the Americans still voting Republican, or the Mexicans still supporting AMLO and I'm like "ahh right".