No entity - person, company, organisation, nation etc.
- is going to volunteer to be at a disadvantage to its competitors.
For example, China dominates the production of iron & steel because it is under less pressure to be less-polluting (among other reasons), and they aren’t going to change because that would help their competitors.
We’re spectators at a race to the bottom.
We need protests with the tact to be heard without their methods overshadowing their own cause.
If the headlines are "protesters do some crazy thing", relatively few people will put any thought into why there was a protest anyway, or worse, they'll dismiss the cause itself as attracting only people extreme enough to act out for attention.
Edit: Ah, an asshole who blocks because they disagree rather than continue to debate differing viewpoints.
The more extreme your words, the more it drives people to give up trying at all.
The more extreme your actions, the fewer people want to risk being associated where friends, family, and/or bosses may see them.
In the past decades, turnout was low enough that only the rare shock-activism made headlines, so that is all you and others think could work it seems.
At the same time, social media doomscrolling has left a generation or two seemingly hopeless about the state of the world, in a dangerous feedback loop.
Mass murderers make the headlines, but do you think anyone so much as reads their manifesto, much less believes their cause is just?
No, they will actively disregard it in spite, rejecting the methods used to draw attention as unacceptable, unsustainable, and all-around disgraceful.
Any form of extreme attention-grabbing action is the same.
Unless you have the tact to appeal to the general public through your choice of actions, anyone who doesn't already believe in your cause will be hardened against ever siding with you, so at best you embolden existing allies.
Since the vast majority of people are indifferent, or care more about personal finances than abstract causes, you need you stick with methods optimized for outreach, mild enough not to turn them away.
On the plus side, the next civilization that rises from our ashes will at least be able to say "Whatever else we do, let's not be as stupid as those assholes.
".
Tact is the last thing we need right now.
This is an emergency.
We cannot wait for morons to be convinced.
If they're too dumb to listen to scientists, fuck them.
The world should move on without their stupid asses.
We need to put real pressure on politicians to act.
We need to block roads and fossil fuel office and facility entrances.
That's the kind of disruption we need to force politicians to act.
You obviously don't have any real ideas.
You know what gets the right attention?
Very large crowds.
Widespread displays of support.
Doomerism and shock-pieces run directly counter to that, cutting into the already-small percentage of the general population willing to set aside days and be associated with the movement.
Vandalism demonizes the cause.
Blocking roads angers the general public, but at you, not the people you claim to oppose.
You need a sea of bodies, in a public space that doesn't disrupt commutes, ideally within earshot of the politicians you want to convince.
You need a protest, but decidedly not a riot, because you want to come across as rational, sane, in-control-of-yourself voters who care deeply about the issue.
The largest protest in world history up to that time, against starting the war in Iraq, happened a few months before Bush started that war.
There were huge crowds worldwide, including in all US major cities, against the war.
Their impact was exactly 0.
Bush ignored them all.
It's very naive to think that it will work when it clearly hasn't in the past.
Meanwhile, fossil fuel industry trolls continue to freak out about paintings that weren't even damaged by activists trying to bring attention to the issue of climate change.
They're paid to get pissed about that, not about the long term damage to the planet and our lives as a result of fossil fuel emissions.
Fuck those trolls and their stupidity.