In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Once again freedom of speech applies primarily towards speaking about gov.
Dont like a politician you have the right to say it.
Many governments during the writing of the constitution severely limited or outright banned voicing any negative opinion on any politician or person in power.
"The new guidelines for the Florida law, known as HB 1467, outline the books be free of pornographic material,".
"Certified media specialist" sounds straight out of 1984.
There may as well be a Ministry of Media department.
I don't understand how r/conservative supports this level of censorship.
It does extend somewhat to general speech.
However freedom of speech does not mean freedom of consequences.
Socially nor legally.
Try yelling fire in a movie theatre, or yell bomb at an airport.
These are examples of trying to create panic and is punishable by law.
So is conspiracy, "il pay you x money if you murder so and so".
You didnt pull the trigger but freedom of speech doesnt protect conspiracy to commit murder charges.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Socially is a little different but just like you might bicker with a friend over if pineapple goes on pizza.
People will have the right to respond or walk away from genuine and serious conflicts.
Like if you talk hate speech.
Which is also morally and legally wrong.
you can be in 4th grade with the reading comprehension of someone in 8th grade.
yet they will argue the material content of an 8th grader would be "more mature" and so the 4th grader is restricted access to these books because of their age and not because they can't handle the content.
"suited to student needs and their ability to comprehend the material, and appropriate for the grade level and age group.
".
You must be ignorant or dont care.
These arent pornographic novels.
These are stories about and written by Black Authors, Lgbtq Authors, and historical fiction/nonfiction books.
Banning these books takes away history and experiences of marginalized people.
Lessons learned.
morals taught.
Acceptance of others.
And important life lessons on just being a decent human to all people, particularly Black people and Queer people.
And Black Queer people.
Which is the main population targeted by these hateful book bannings and class bannings (the ap history course).
isn't this also an example of the government deciding what children can and can't handle instead of the parents and the kids themselves?
ya know, the very thing conservatives rally against?
These stories aren't any more inappropriate than stuart little.
In fact it's important for history to be taught less we repeat old horrible mistakes.