In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
My brother in Christ, it was already a devastating enough self-own when the Republicans shut down the government in 2013 and 2018 and furloughed a ton of employees for a few weeks.
What do you think would happen when the government stops paying for shit altogether and goes into default, a situation roughly ten thousand times worse than a shutdown?
Yes, it’s “made up,” but people believe in it, so of course the consequences would be devastating.
Go ahead and try and convince literally the entire world that we should stop caring about money overnight.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
You don’t have to.
Politicians just have to come together and say “hey we set this limit on ourselves, our money is always backed by our guns, and they’re still working, so we’ve removed the debt limit” and we live on like normal.
But of course that doesn’t consolidate power and make for a great fundraising email for every member of congress.
This comment betrays that you don’t actually understand what it is we’re talking about.
Here’s a refresher for you:
I swear to Christ, teaching laypeople what the term “fiat currency” means was one of the worst outcomes of the whole Crypto fad.
Sure it does That’s the benefit of it Increasing supposed debt no one will ever pay off to fund the elites on Wall St and Washinon.
It’s made up, and controlled, they can certainly change the rules if they’d like, but they won’t because this divides us more and gives more power and wealth to the politicians.
No matter the side of the aaisle you’re on.
Sigh.
Just because the currency isn’t backed by an asset like gold or silver doesn’t mean you can just do whatever the hell you want with no consequences.