In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Religious conservatives are all over the map in both countries too.
They often hate each other more than they hate the rest of us, and they still dominate enough that people are still afraid to let people know they are atheists.
As someone with more than two brain cells to rub together, I swear to god this is the happiest I've ever been with Republicans.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
My theory is like a sink drain, all the crud sinks to the lowest point.
I grew up in Florida, can't stand the place now.
No way to escape the base and their stupidity.
The same thing is happening to our conservatives up here in Canada.
There's a growing divide between the capitalist conservatives and the religious conservatives, among many other schisms.
Education divides our country and yours more than anything else except wealth, and it's just a plain fact that most well educated people were born into wealth, whether they get that or not.
At this point, "Conservative" really means an uneasy coalition that has a combined mission to acquire all the things and dictate all the behaviours.
You're right, enough of them have to be reeled back in so they don't Crystal Night the whole place through acts, complacency, and sympathy for the "cause".
Honestly, David helped create this mess too.
His mother was one of my broadcast heroes.
He's certainly got her quick mind.
I will def watch that when I get the time.
He does always make me kinda sad though.
Mom fought to get to where she got, which was host of the biggest talk radio show in the country, essentially, at the time, and was far less conservative I think.
He grew up with more privilege, and like many intelligent rich kids spent half his adult life justifying it, I think.
That's not as hard to do as it might seem, I think.
We know that these are people who cannot see beyond themselves, so you just appeal to their self-interest.
Yup.
The party that screams about stolen elections knows they can be stolen, because they stole that one fair and square.
Is it in your self-interest to have your neighbours march up and down the street with rifles, normal conservatives?
Is it in your self interest to clean up after them when they trash your street because it's nearby and not their street and they want the gummint to notice them, for anyone to notice them?
Looking at you, Freedom Convoy morons.
Is it in their best interest to bury the members of their family who got in the way on revolution night, in the backyard if they have one or the park or dumpster if they don't, because civilization things like "bring out your dead" disappeared one night when the night shift manager at McDonalds had one "You want cheese on that?"
moment too many, so he hit the relevant reddit subs with a call to arms?
Canada is not going to ban all guns including hunting guns.
That's rightwing rhetoric here in Canada, paid for by our U.S. conservative masters through the politicians they own and Postmedia.
And O'Toole doesn't support that, last I checked.
All conservativers definitely do not support massive immigration, that's not even a thing ffs.
Fake news, dood.
Everything you typed at me is basically a lie.
You lie like a conservative.
The Republicans show has had a great run so far.
Hiring Reagan to transform the presidency into unapologetic theatre really paid off.
The first Bush was stiff and unsympathetic, but Jr.'s clownshow made up for it I think.
The Trump thing was a masterstroke, it will inspire crappy spinoffs for decades, and it pushed the envelope when it came to engaging the audience.
The star being a bloated ignorant pigman turned out to be the perfect fit for their audience.
Despite combing the sexual magnetism of Ted Cruz and the intellect of Larry the Unstable Guy, Trump ran out of new material faster than Flock of Seagulls, and the crowds soon drifted away, back to monster truck rallies and protests against medicine and air and stuff.
Ratings were down, everyone knows when the horse is a loser.
Then along came Lauren Gaetz, Matt Taylor Green, and Marge Whasisname to liven up the proceedings.
Like a good soap opera twist, the boring "good" guys like Kevin McCarthyism and Mitch China were re-scripted as bad guys.
Show's back on the rails now, the audience is entertained.
I completely agree.
My living memory of the shitshow Republicans have been goes back to Nixon, and I've read a few hundred books related to the subject since then, and then along came the internet...
It could be a very long diatribe, and only 3 living people would get some of the jokes.
Bush Jr. One could not imagine a more goofy and ghastly choice for President.
The hands only came out of that puppet's ass to trade ventriloquists.
Yet by the middle of the Trump presidency the sliding average made him look like a normal president, the kind of guy who paints meaninglessly into the twilight and hangs around with his pal Bill Clinton cracking jokes.
That's how bad it's been these last 7 years or so.
Bush Jr. doesn't look so bad anymore.
Nixon seems average too.
Taping his office made him seem like a paranoid lunatic to his own base.
I imagine the White House is fully wired for sound now.
By more than one country probably, because Trump.
Thing is, I agree with you.
It shouldn't be a show.
Do you think Boebert or Green or Gaetz or Tucker Carlson agree?
I'm just stating a reality.
Reagan was just a good looking moron who knew how to remember his lines.
It has not improved since then in the Republican party.
That's not my fault.