In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yes I do agree it's a sentiment widespread across most Western democracies, people want to vote to impact those they see as a barrier to their success, mostly, completely wrongly.
Examples that are quite common are 'migrants are taking our jobs' or migrants are taking all the good jobs' or X-ethnic group are causing all the crime.
These horrible Republicans deserve each other, but the country certainly doesn't deserve them, and can't afford them, with all their time wasting nonsense..
The past few years have taught me there are some truly nasty people out there who really, truly only want to hurt others.
And if the GOP can make that happen, that's who they're voting for.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
These views don't spring out of thin air.
People who believe these things have often been subjected to a lifetime of propaganda, both formal and informal, convincing them that certain groups of people need to be hurt.
They have been, in a word, deceived.
They've been taught to believe things that aren't true.
The only long term solution is to break this cycle, to stop more people from falling into these lies and becoming hateful and bigoted like this.
It's not just political resentment anymore.
Now it's out and out harm.
There are many people on the right who want to physically harm people they perceive as enemies.
Thank you for sharing, we can't choose our family or the society we grow up in.
I departed Christianity early so it's good to be reminded of the power it has over so many.
Social mores kind of self perpetuate and often attract an adherence verging on reverence.
"Alcohol is good" "We've always done it this way" "Us X'ers have always been tough" etc etc.
Undoubtedly this is part of the paradox of why so many vote for politicians that stand against their rights and welfare.
Good observation, I agree, if access to voting was easier more people would vote but proportionately less would vote Republican.
Which is why the Republican Party is addicted to voter suppression and the gerrymander..