The general assembly spends like 80% of its time and energy condemning Israel specifically.
The other 20% of resources go to otherwise deflect away from the problems in the more influential member states, I assume.
Not really, the UN is there to provide an outlet where all the countries can get together to discuss things peacefully.
Arguably, the status quo is the entire point.
So make it a commitee of grandstanding?
For the UN to work everyone has to be represented.
And whilst it may look bad from a PR standpoint, them being on these commissions do not alter their work, can you legitimately point out to anything these committees are sending out that is factually wrong or anti women?
A few member states that have to be represented to have a world wide forum does not change their work as they are a minority to those who uphold these values.
Countries are voted onto the committee based on an equitable distribution by geographic region.
IE, Western Europe will always have X seats, North Africa X seats, etc.
There is always going to be a country in Iran's neighborhood on these committees.
And having them on these committees optimistically forces them to atleast have to sit there and listen.
The essential problem with the UN is that it's supposed to promote democratic ideals, and it uses democratic processes, but the member states are not necessarily democratic states nor do they have any respect for democracy.
So a massive problem with corruption is baked into every UN agency with the possible exception of the UNSC.
At the Doha airport in Qatar women go through airport security with their faces covered (of course they are escorted by their husband who has to vouch for his property).
Only to those who are too stupid to understand how the UN functions as a worldwide forum is it considered a "waste of space".
Or are unwilling to even try to given they have access to the Internet and the wealth of human knowledge and would rather listen to some moronic pondit lying.
And can you point to a single flaw in the commissions work related to Iran being a member?
Anything wrong with what they send out?
Or do you actually have absolutely no idea?