I have a letter framed from General Motors for my 1988 Pontiac Grand Prix (piece of junk) I bought brand new.
The letter stated that although we are not in any immediate danger there have been reports of the wheels falling off at freeway speeds and we should stop by the dealership at our earliest convenience!
But I do get better MPG than the other competitors, so that helped them sell a shit load of cars.
And any time it eats a clutch plate Ford is happy to give me a free software update, which doesn't help at all but makes it seem like they tried.
So now Ford is at the top of the list of brands I'll never ever ever buy again.
Followed closely by Apple.
Because Apple is a scam.
And they've been a scam for like 25 years, at least.
Long post, but you asked.
TLDR: right to repair and other anti-consumer practices.
Back around 2002 or 2003 my mom had a problem with a fairly new powerbook she owned, it was out of warranty but only about 18 months old.
She took it to the store and they did everything possible to sell her a brand new computer rather than repair it.
So I went with her back to the store and they told us that it couldn't be fixed.
I have a decent PC hardware background and I was fairly confident the problem was a corrupt hard drive that should be easy enough to replace, but I wasn't 100% sure because I had no Mac experience at the time.
So we spoke with a higher up and he said it's totally fucked, it would cost as much to fix it as buying a brand new laptop.
It needs a new board, new ram and cpu, and a new drive.
Maybe more than that, it may need a screen replacement too.
He claimed it was water damaged, which was a lie.
But basically he's telling us we should just get a new model.
Anyway, I was blown away because to my eye the problem was a corrupt hard drive.
A common failure for any computer.
The computer had power, the screen worked, the inputs worked, but it failed to boot to the desktop.
It did not appear to be a water related problem at all.
Everything physically worked, it just didn't get past the boot sequence.
Mom's main concern was recovering files.
Pictures, work, etc.
I had told her already that a corrupted drive meant that might not be possible but we could try when we got the old drive back.
Apple guy told us they can get the files if we do the full recovery repair option by sending the computer to their main repair facility, for something like $1600.
I said that price is crazy, this computer only needs a $50 hard drive replacement.
But Apple guy convinced mom the repair would be the best option, and more importantly he convinced her that this would get her pictures and files back, something I was telling her was unlikely if the drive was corrupted.
I said we should take it to another repair place and see what they charge.
Apple guy pointed out that 3rd party repair shops don't have all the tools they need to diagnose and repair Apple computers.
A practice that has several lawsuits working their way through the courts, even today.
Back to the story, mom opted to send the thing out for repair back at Apple.
So she's now spent $3600 total to purchase and then to repair a computer.
Remember, it's 2003.
For comparison, I had built a very good desktop PC for gaming that same year for around $750.
That desktops specs were about twice as powerful as the powerbook, and it worked fine for 11 years.
$2k for a computer that didn't make it 2 years was a complete rip off to begin with, and repair costs were equally bad.
They intentionally withhold any useful repair documents or manuals or software tools in a shitty way of forcing customers to only use their service centers.
It's blatantly monopolistic and anti-competitive, and it's been a central part of their business philosophy for decades.
They want to crush the independent repair business.
They want their customers to be fully reliant on the company, and they use that to drive up repair prices.
If you had options, would you choose your abuser?
That's beyond ridiculous, it's also illegal, as I later learned.
Companies must return the parts when you get a repair unless there is a hazard in doing so.
I had specifically requested they return all the parts.
By keeping them they basically stole from us.
For all I know the same board, CPU, and RAM were still in there and they charged us $1600 to swap in a new hard drive.
When we got the repaired computer back a couple weeks later they also gave us a copy of the old hard drive on an external HDD.
They didn't give us back any of the original parts.
I wanted the original HDD to try and recover the files, cloning a corrupted hard drive simply makes a corrupt copy.
And that's what they gave us, a clone of a corrupted drive.
And even though they sold her the recovery package they didn't actually recover any files.
Instead mom got an external HDD that's basically worthless.
Sure the pictures may be on there, but you need special tools to recover any of it.
I was only able to recover a few things.
Most of her files were lost.
With that being said it sounds like you guys had some horrible luck with a horrible tech.
I only say that due to my with my anecdotal experience as an Apple “Genius” for 6+ years.
So my first experience with apple saw them scam my mom out of $1600 for a computer that I believe only needed a $30 part.
And every subsequent experience was pretty much exactly the same thing.
I got an ipod for my birthday and when it broke I got no help, only sales pitches for the next generation ipod.
And they built an entire empire out of convincing their customers that they're the only company that can fix it.
But computers aren't magic, there's nothing unique about their hardware.
Inside a Mac all the parts function exactly the same as a PC.
They even use Intel chips these days.
There's no reason why an independent repair guy can fix a Dell or an HP but not a Mac, except for the fact that apple does everything possible to make sure he can't fix it.
They won't let him buy replacement parts, they don't offer repair manuals, and they'll void the warranty and brick a device if you don't use the parts that they won't sell you.
That's basically extortion, in my opinion.
They even designed their own screws and they don't let anyone sell the screwdrivers.
I mean, c'mon.
Fuck apple.
Thanks for taking the time to write this, and I agree with almost everything you said; mostly that Apples right to repair practices are abhorrent and must be changed immediately.
I do believe that each store has their own politics and practices, and that the store I worked primarily out of was “one of the good ones” because we rarely if ever had interactions like that but I do hear these stories ALL THE TIME.
I guess I just wanted to say that not all the employees are shit, but it definitely sounds like you’ve worked with a few shitters.
I must have rotten luck then.
Because I've only been to an apple store three times in my life, and all three of them were at different locations.
And in every case I was left dissatisfied.
Their practice seems to be "if the tech can't fix it in the next 10 minutes try and sell them a new one.
If they insist on repairs tell them it's totally ruined and not worth the time and money to repair when you can just get a new one, lie as needed.
".
I'm not about buying replaceable stuff.
If the company survives by selling customers a disposable product every year then I'm not buying it.
That's clearly their model, but it only works if they also destroy the repair market and strip the owner of any options.
Their water damage sensors were complete bs, moderate humidity would trigger them.
If your device has ever sat on the bathroom counter while you took a shower it would set them off, and then they won't honor the warranty for anything else that happens.
At least you'll know well before your wheels fall off and have a chance to stop, unless you're a maniac and ignore your car shaking violently lol.
With self-driving cars they could randomly kill you at any second.
Because people are much less likely to pay you to be beta testers if you name it "Experimental and potentially dangerous self driving that's really little more than lane assist technology that's available on a stock Honda for free.
".