Also, the cap is US$60/bbl.
Current prices from other sources are somewhere from US$75 to US$89, depending.
I Wonder how other producers feel about this?
I mean, the US is part of that, and it would be exceedingly stupid to pass up that kind of deal if you're ExxonMobil or something, eh?
Just business, after all... .
Soooo nobody would buy it then… think about being an Exxon exec.
You could buy from two different location for the same price but one of them is going to support an enemy of the state and probably cost more in shipping.
This is a ridiculous concept.
Everyone would buy it.
The buyers, unless directly told to not and enforced to not will buy it from wherever it's cheapest, then sell it for the most possible.
That's business.
They do not care one whit for anyone anywhere, for caring would not be business.
Russia needs to be creamed into the ground and then forced to pay reparations over the next half century.
Absolutely everyone who's buying oil will buy it and be fools not to for the approximately 10-15 dollars per barrel savings it will afford them.
Again, unless told and enforced to stop.
Which may happen, I've read embargoes from both the G7 and EU are on the table in addition to this cap.
Remember the adage: War is good for business.
This is business.
Leave your emotions at the coat check.
Business is business.
Emotions, family, friends, even self in some cases are irrelevant when it comes to business.
It's sad that this is the case, but it IS the case.
I dislike it as well.
And it's also true of other things.
While the war in Ukraine is horrid, there's plenty of other things that you and I currently buy/use that have really horrid origins in some cases.
Clothes.
Even food or spices...
The list if you delve into it would defeat any hope you have for humanity rising above the monsters they sometimes are for all the world to see, but absolutely are behind the scenes all the time.
You are absolutely correct that Russia needs to be paying reparations.
100 Percent.
They should be told in no uncertain terms YOU LOSE, MA'AM.
GOOD DAY.
I SAID GOOD DAY.
Again, sorry.
I'm sorry I'm a cynic about it all, but life teaches you things.
This is one of them harsh lessons.
But then there are a lot of countries that to this day have done some pretty bad things and haven't done their part to fix things.
The USA right up there of course.
I don't know where you are in the world, but me being in the USA, I recognize my country has done some bad things and haven't quite if not outright not fixed them at all.
Not that I can do anything about it, frankly, I'm voting best I can, but I gotta eat too, y'know?
And what I'm saying is at some level, there are a LOT of countries what screw each other over, so they all owe reparations to other countries, and then don't do it.
So don't expect Russia to do a whole lot, she's too big to be forced to do anything, quite obviously.
Making the rest of us who have to buy the oil from somewhere (there is a giant system that says "Russia oil is required" you know) pay more for the oil, even if it's for 'a good cause' is not good business sense, and you can't enforce that anyway.
Hell, Russia can sell the oil anywhere who WON'T have a cap, so don't worry.
We're likely not going to pay them one red cent.
It'll go to other countries, and the market will shift around and figure itself out to get oil where it's needed.
Prices for gas/heating oil will go up regardless, for the other adage is thus: Do not let a crisis go to waste.
Again, businesses DO NOT CARE.
Business is business.
Ain't got no dang emotions, it wants money, give it.
All that said I want to end by saying I get your enthusiasm.
Truly good.
Use it to make the world better.
I believe in you.
But pick the good fights, local fights, get others locally on board, working from the literal ground up until you explode through the layers of old ways and make the world a better place.
It has to be started from the ground floor so the support system is in place for the higher levels to be secured and make the world better than where it is now.
I’m not going to read all this but from the get-go, I’m under the assumption that the other guy was implying that instead of the $60/barrel, we charge them $75 and the $15 would go towards reparations to Ukraine, etc.
If market price is $75 and we’re up charging the Russian shit to $75, what the actual fuck would anybody buy that for?
?
I actually did read it after I replied and I still don’t see how my point has been refuted.
I might be misunderstanding but I’m not convinced the other commenter didn’t mean up charging the Russian oil to market price.
Big caveat, if the shipping from Russia was indeed cheaper than any other option, I assure you I know it would be the only oil anybody would buy.
And don’t get me wrong, I understand how business works.
The only reason such an agreement was ever conceived was because somebody wants to buy that oil.
So please do explain a bit further or otherwise, to you I say GOOD DAY!
or really good night at this point.
Alright.
Reset.
Let's review and have some questions answered here.
And yes, there's more words.
This situation is not that simple that a couple of quick shot lines will do.
Here goes.
Someone would buy it.
And it's a no brainer, just business.
ExxonMobil will absolute buy it.
BP too.
All of them.
"Cheaper crude?
Hell yes, gimme!"
they will all say and scrabble to buy their fill.
So you see, I was thinking as an ExxonMobil or BP exec, and they would... no, will buy it, no question.
Again, Just.
Business.
Nothing personal, almost literally.
I told you the reason why in the big reply.
As such, it's not a ridiculous concept, it's the way business is done.
And will be done, again, unless governments intervene to ban them from doing so.
Why do you think all the regulations on business currently even exist?
Not just oil, other aspects of business like dumping of chemicals or labor laws, that sort of thing.
Because businesses would and even currently do the Bad Things(tm), because better profits.
Such would be the case here.
Russia will not be creamed into the ground.
They will not even be stopped by this.
Their goal IS THE OIL in Ukraine.
They just seriously underestimated the requirements to get the land so they can get Ukraine's oil.
And their wheat, by the way.
The oil offshore of Ukraine is the prize, the reason.
Russia wants that for the monetary gain, and the world would gladly buy it from them.
The wheat they probably want for themselves as well as selling it.
Crimea was the first step in this plan, to get the shipping facilities they didn't have.
Now the rest of Ukraine, or the areas in question, is the other step, but they again underestimated what they'd have to do and for how long.
There will not be two different locations for the same price, for the price of oil per barrel as I stated earlier is in a range of about 75-90 dollars US.
You can see those prices here:
The 60 per barrel is way lower, thereby causing ExxonMobil and all the others to want to buy it over the other locations, as it good business practice.
REGARDLESS of the situation.
And only if forbidden by the government(s) they must bow to would they not.
They literally do not care where/how it gets in their hands, if it's cheaper, it's going to be bought, period.
I suspect, but do not know, that they will actually achieve their goals.
And as such, they will not be forced to pay reparations.
Good luck even with that however this goes.
It's Russia.
If they cared so much, they wouldn't have even invade Crimea, much less Ukraine.
Alrighty then.
If that don't do it, I don't know what will.
You're either denying in disbelief the reality of things, or you just want to argue.
Either way, I'm all done here.
Nothin' more to say except have a good one, and good night.