Imagine getting a cancer diagnosis (and who knows what else he has) and instead of wanting to spend more time with family and/or enjoying your last months, weeks or years but choosing to use your remaining time to cause more pain and destruction.
If there is a hell Putin is definitely on the VIP list.
We revere mass murderers, billionaires and the worst humanity has to offer all the time.
To change how people view power hungry maniacs you need to do an honest accounting of history and tell the stories of how the people that destroyed lives, towns and cities we’re disgusting and vile people instead of continuously holding them up on a pedestal.
If you do that then people like Putin would never exist.
He exist because his behavior is what has been acceptable in Russia and the rest of the world for thousands of years.
I agree.
Billions and billions in advertising are spent to make us peasants and slaves think the billionaires are 'good people' for owning so many slaves.
I don't get it, but I never really been well ingratiated into society and don't understand why people put up with having entire nations dominated by a few people only because they are evil enough to soak up all available resources and power no matter the cost.
I'm not ok with how the system is now, it is totally unfair and very talented and smart people get lost due to many detrimental factors, education is hard to access, you need money for it and nobody gives you a place to stay and money to survive unless you have rich parents, and if you educate yourself via the internet it is not enough cause you still need papers obtained only in the places where you give money.
So overall a very unfair disadvantage to people with low income, it's how the system is done in order to keep a steady income of slaves.
There is a far longer road for those without money and it's not fair, it puts limits on people.
No matter how fast you run, you will still have a longer distance to run then someone with money, if you both run just as fast you will still be miles behind.
It's how it is it's how the world works, there are no stupid people unless they have a genetical disease, only poorly trained, brainwashed and overall unlucky.
It took a long while for Elon Musk's reputation to be ruined.
It took years and years of being a billionaire asshole to do so.
All the while until recently, he had millions of millions of fans, who thought he was a superior person because he had some sort of superior abilities, when in fact, he is just another born rich, sick in the head, anti-social billionaire living in his own King on Earth will all the toys, whores and millions of employees, who merely owns people because he has enough money not to even notice.
These people are not heroes, they are sick.
That is a tough guy movie fantasy.
Even the worst person in the world wants to be respected by someone, anyone.
Usually it’s their family, tribe or nation or other rich people but everyone wants some type of legacy and legitimacy.
Even mass murderers who feel the world has wronged them write manifesto’s to be able to get out their world view so someone out there will say they were right.
If somebody is charismatic enough to hold sway over a large group of people then they want to be loved and respected and honored.
I disagree when I see billionaires and hereditary dynasties with wealth being transferred from generation to generation so that they believe they are above the law and don’t need to play by the same morals, ethics or rules that the rest of us have to.
Monarchies have just moved into hedge funds and private equity firms to avoid prying eyes but nothing changed.
They still control the messages we hear and we work for them still.
We work more hours for less wages now than serfs did centuries ago.
It’s staying the same because we allow these vampires to frame the narrative that greed is good and those who have the weapons and power make the rules.
Greed and greedy people should be shunned.
Using violence to solve disputes should command the whole world to take up arms against the aggressor and ensure it never happens again.
We don’t though cause we revere the worst human traits while looking down on people who are humble or shunning the weak and the poor.
That’s fair and I’m actually happier now knowing I’m a peasant rather than a lowly serf.
Suck on it serfs .