Why do the Russians need so many foreign fighters?
With a population of over 145M citizens, you’d think they could resource their own soldiers.
Or, do they simply want others to die so Russians don’t have to?
Personally, I think it's because Putin's threats of a 5 million man draft are empty, and he knows attempting to conscript that many soldiers will rip apart the nation.
Russia already has a demographic problem, sending 5.million fighting age men to fight/die would destroy their economy, their statehood, their future.
It's not like immigration could ever solve that problem either as Russians would never tolerate mass immigration to their country.
They fucked up so bad with thos war already.
Big big difference there.
I do agree that any country can rebound, but Germany was an economic leader before WW1 and still was in WW2 despite the depression.
The Russian economy is not.
The meat and blood of any army and officer corps- young men and middle aged men (older officers) have been leaving for a long time and this war put it in over drive.
To put it another way, they are like Japan in that their population is declining and their population pyramid is delicate and top heavy.
But unlike Japan, people want to leave not move there.
Hard to have a scary army when your top scientist, your smartest men, even your conscripts would rather move.
And unlike the past, it can be as simple as walking a border then hopping a plane.
It's no longer a world where they have to cross a border, find a train or ship, hope you don't get turned away, etc.
The USSR lost 20 million, and it did an insane amount of damage.
I don't know how any leader would survive doing that to their population intentionally.
If they do the guerilla warfare, despite being a nation of plains, will make Afganistan look like a picnic.
Russia is not prepared and Ukraine is bordered by a ton of countries who will happily smuggle in weapons.
USA did it for the Mujahadeen- imagine what the EU would do for Ukraine.
Of course that's an IF they conquered Ukraine.
Which, at this point, seems next to impossible unless they manage some breakthrough that shatters morale.
Russian tactics don't seem capable of such a thing, and Ukrainian morale doesn't seem to be flagging.