I was about to say, as an Energy Control Operator for a city of 70,000+ people in the United States who is in control not only the electrical grid(monitoring substations, circuits, turning people on/off and sending out the lineman and their apprentices to trouble calls) I also monitor the water system and wells/tanks, (same responsibilities as electric) and the gas system, me and my coworkers started talking about the Ukraine situation and the attacks on the utility infrastructure.
We are in a secure location but it's just a building.
Anyone could find it on Google maps.
We got to talking about how easy it would be for terrorists to to royally fuck up the power grid.
I can imagine one day people like me and my coworkers were sitting at their stations, anserwing trouble calls and getting complaints about people's bills when all of a sudden their building is gone because a Russian rocket or something hit it.
I am not sure how this is not considered serious war crimes at the same level as intentionally attacking civilian centers.
To be fair though, i am guessing (since we have basically the same job but different countries) that you guys have a number of safety measures and redundancies in place for different situations.
Which we obviously won't discuss.
But even if they do eliminate your control room or central command ability you could still operate the substations the old school way.
Will be more of a pain in the ass but would work fine.
It not just one day.
They can continue to attack it.
Not even sure how to protect the workers that try and repair.
I feel for the utility infrastructure people in Ukraine.
It's an unsung and behind the scenes job people rarely think about.
I hear you man, i mean we have people working 24/7 solving all sorts of problems and emergencies that arise on a normal day without war just because "the unpredictable reality" hits us in so many ways.
And most of the times we are taken for granted.
The public usually only sees the technicians but they don't see the massive machine behind them making the wheel spin.
Still, i love this job and it comes with a special sort of camraderie feel like.
Can't imagine what that is like in Ukraine now.
Talking about the 24/7 thing and the chaos that is a "normal operating day" without a war, I'm thankful I just have to worry about people shooting transformers or throwing chains on power lines!
Yeah, regardless if Energy Control was taken out, the service techs can always do what they gotta do to keep the utilities going, but in our case it'd be far more difficult to cope with the issues that comes up because of the loss of the "ekg" of the infrastructure.
Actually, 9 times out of 10 there is a burnt husk of a squirrel body on top of a transformer or on the ground near the pole, so that's when we put AFS!
Yeah, finding people to talk shop about my job is hard, even in English!
I hope our counterparts in Ukraine are staying safe.
But you know what?
The most common calls we get aren't even major calls.
It's AFS calls Anytime A FUCKING Squirrel (official policy states the acronym in our outage system is A Furry Squirrel but we all know the truth) causes a fuse to blow, that's what we put in for cause!
Wow i never thought about the fact that you guys have to deal with shootings on your infrastructure.
Our biggest enemies usually is digging firms who doesn't do their due diligence before digging.
But yes, if there is a undetermined cause for a fuse to blow, we put AFS because "unknown" doesn't look good lol.
So you mean that every time a fuse blows for unknown reasons you put it down as an AFS?
Thats funny though, the acronym!
Ahaha wow thats amazing, i haf no idea it was that common for you guys.
We just put "unknown" if we don't know.
But squirrels are very rarely the culprit over here.
More common with rats and mice, and the occasional bird.
Not 9/10 though but it happens.
Destroying one substation would be a minor issue.
But it would be easy to target multiple stations.
They are public knowledge to their locations and have near zero defense.
I wouldn't willingly blow up essential infrastructure that I will need to do, but I realize I'm not Vladimir Putin and just shake my head.
The reason this wasn't a 3 day war, and has instead developed into Ukraine recapturing all their territory, is because of that support and the bravery of the UA.
Well i don't know about "smart", i mean this is probably straight out of the playbook when it comes to invading another modern country, morality aside like you said of course.
If anything the fact that Russia is doing this NOW just speaks to their strategical incompetence.
I mean they should have done this immediately when they realized the war was going to last longer than the initial 3 days they first had planned for.
Now as this has dragged on Ukraine has been able to build up it's strenh through foreign aid and now has more anti-air units than they initially had, i think like 75% of this last missile barrage was stopped by anti-air.
Instead they have mostly focused their missile attacks on residential areas which gains them nothing but a hateful population to conquer aswell as galvanizing support for Ukraine.