My father died this past year.
He had three types of cancer plus cerebral palsy.
For the last two months of his life, he was stuck in a small hospital bed in his own bedroom.
Once his diagnosis was terminal, Hospice stepped in.
The only real benefit to Hospice, besides the nurse visits twice a week, is the drugs.
Once prescribed, the prescription delivery would be at his doorstep in less than 90 minutes.
Their drug of choice is Morphine.
Morphine is an appetite suppressant and he went 26 days without food before he passed.
On day 19, he started choking on the crushed up morphine pills.
If it were up to me, I would have authorized Hospice to administer an assisted death plan that day.
He was suffering, we were suffering.
But he lasted 7 more days which still haunts me.
It can obstruct your way of thinking, like depression.
Imagine giving so many people with depression a way to commit suicide, even though they could've been happy if they lasted another half a year or a year and worked on themselves with therapy and possibly medication.
Basically, the only course of action for Hospice in this situation, was to let the terminal patient starve to death!
I don’t blame Hospice.
I blame the Politicians.
The same argument came up during the discussion about one of those tall buildings in... was it LA?
Either way, it lacked security and people threw themselves off of it multiple times.
The counterargument to putting up actual fences was that 'those people would kill themselves anyway'.
But it's not really true.
I mean it's not like people aren't already committing suicide.
If anything if people think it'd be easier to go see a doctor than down a bottle of whisky and some tylenol, theyre more likely to have that first conversation and get treatment instead of having to put themselves into a coma/getting their stomach pumped first.
I have Alzheimer/dementia on both sides, I'd like to be able go than live with it for a long time after seeing grandparents living in assisted living.
I wholeheartedly agree with Alzheimer, dementia, terminal cancer and other cases like that, but when mental illness comes into the picture, I don't know...
The fact that they were in a position where they realised they could commit suicide right there and then made more people commit suicide than if they didn't have an opportunity like that.
So if we extrapolate that to this situation, more people might commit suicide, even though their condition is oftentimes treatable.
As for the accurate diagnosis, yeah...
I can see a lot of medical malpractice being possible over there, which is already super common in the mental health aspect of it.
I see what you're saying but I'm not sure it's quite comparable.
It's known that many suicides are spontaneous/momentarily lapses in judgement resulting from acute mental pain and so methods where you can just pull a trigger or jump off a building/in front of a train can be more common in mentally unsound persons when they're available.
That said MAID requires consultations and approvals from at least 2 doctors that you're beyond treatment and so wouldn't really apply as it's a more prolonged process than a spontaneous action due to a call from the void on a particularly bad day.
But yeah, if someone has gone through every possible treatment and still want to go through with it, yeah, I agree, at least in principle!
I see what you mean there.
Yeah, it's a much longer process during which one can change their mind, but it also feels much easier and accessible than having to jump off a bridge or something akin to that.
It's just really hard to set a reasonable line here.
How many years of therapy would someone need?
What if the therapist was bad?
Medication related things would be easier to assess here.
But therapy isn't quantifiable as easily, and thought processes can really change the brain, to the point it reverts back to the previous state - just like they can cause the brain to fall ill with depression in certain cases.
Yeah, there's cases like that - especially medicine-triggered akathisia or similar.
Read a case report of a female patient who got just that from someone prescribing her antipsychotics for her mild depression, and after that she became suicidal due to the side effects that persisted despite taking her off the meds.
However, electroshock therapy worked on her.
But if it didn't, I can see how similar it would be to, say, terminal cancer.
You suffer every second of your life.
Not really.
There's still ups and downs with depression, and each case is different.
You can have happy moments with depression.
That's a generalization.