I don't know about this shit in germany; premeditated, luring them into an ambush, sounds fucking evil.
But here in sweden fire fighters and ambulance personnel have been attacked sometimes, when going to heavily segregated areas.
Heavy segregation leads to parallel societies and they see police, ambulance, firefighters as invading representatives from "outside".
Like in almost every country in the world, segregation happens because of many different reasons; socioeconomic factors not the least of them.
Low income neighborhoods etc.
Why would you expect sweden to be different?
Shooting off fireworks in cities during New Years is a thing in Germany.
I saw some kids shoot some at police in Frankfurt years back.
It's viewed as a mostly harmless prank, especially when the targets have adequate protection to prevent injury, like firefighters.
I could see this kind of ambush being just an escalation of that sort of behavior.
In my country (Portugal) most of the firefighters/paramedics are volunteers.
In my firehouse we had Devs, full time politicians, woodworkers, garbage men, plumbers, university teachers, docs, nurses, army men, people with all kinds of diplomas and humble fellas that didn't had an opportunity to study... we even have a national TV news reporter.
It doesn't matter what you do.
We are all the same.
Flesh and bone.
One big family of crazy women and men with a big heart that really care for eachother.
This post left me very sad because I've felt this in person.
I've meet countless monsters in 15 years of service.
One guy even attempted an aggression with an axe during a wildfire against my "chief" for no reason at all.
I've had people cursing me, threatening me and I've been punched by delirious guys and drunken fellas.
When I think it's not worth it anymore, I think about my colleagues and all the good people I've helped along the path.
We've been through a lot, that's what keep us going.
I can tell you it's basicially the same in the countryside in Austria.
Without volunteers there would be basicially no fire department.
But in the bigger cities like Vienna most fire men are paid.
And it's absolutely horrendous when people get attacked who are only there to help others who are in danger or need of help.
In Portugal is almost impossible to sustain it.
The wildfires are a huge problem and sometimes we need thousands of people fighting at the same time in different regions.
It's the same for every country with huge forests and hot summers.
We are making partnerships along with our Spanish border to help eachother since the wildfires are getting more regular and violent and the forests are abandoned due to the concentration of people in the big cities.
Fire knows no border.
This seems like a slightly escalated version of the normal fireworks in the streets shenanigans that go on on New Years in Germany.
I saw some kids shooting fireworks at cops in Frankfurt like ten years ago.