In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“Dan Grazier, a senior defense policy fellow at the Project on Government Oversight (POGO), sees an outright Chinese invasion of Taiwan as extremely unlikely.
Such a military operation would immediately disrupt the imports and exports upon which the Chinese economy relies for its very survival, Grazier told CNN, and interrupting this trade risks the collapse of the Chinese economy in short order.
China relies on imports of food and fuel to drive their economic engine, Grazier said, and they have little room to maneuver.”.
Curious if the Chinese government is secretly wondering if they'd end up in a similar situation as Russia.
You have a big military with a lot of equipment, but not a lot of experience.
When was the last time the Chinese military did anything other than beating defenseless people up in their own borders?
Anyone involved in that conflict would be in their 60s, so I think it's safe to say the Chinese military lacks front line troops with combat experience.
For some reason, I think you might be making some false equivalencies here.
It's possible global politics may be a weee bit more complicated than will fit into your simple paradigm.
Besides which, isn't Afghanistan irrelevant to the conversation since they got their "freedom"?
We have plenty of inventory for a two-theater near-peer protracted conflict with conventional weapons systems currently and that capability is expected to triple in the next year.
Most of the weapons that we have sent to Ukraine to date is inventory that was nearing the end of its life span and we were going to have to spend tens of millions of dollars to safely dispose of it- sending it to Ukraine actually saved us money.
Ukraine is the new model for war fighting for the US.
Latest doctrine changes are no boots on the ground for US troops.
And the Air Force has been prepping “Quick Sink”, which greatly increases the capacity to deny surface naval forces from operating in contested waters.
Boeing can deliver one F-16 XL per day at peak production.
Lockheed Martin can deliver an F-35 every 2 days at current peak production.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Cool article, thanks!
The US is currently in the process of tripling arms production capacity.
This has been underway for several months now.
Replenishing those stocks have already long been in the pipeline and are part of normal Defense appropriations bills.
Despite what you may hear on Cable News channels, American war fighting readiness has never fallen short.
All The News channels never fully research their facts and they cherry pick outrageous headlines to fear monger.
For Example: The current Pentagon order book lists MLRS missile appropriations for an inventory of 100,000+ units.
For context, during the entire duration of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined, the US only used about 20,000 units.
I would point you to Google briefings given by Peter Zeihan, who is a geopolitical analyst and consultant to DOD, CIA and other agencies.
He just appeared on the Joe Rogan podcast a couple of days ago.
His information is solid, reliable and current.
I’ve been following him for years now and he has been very accurate in his assessment of both Russian and Chinese military posture and capabilities and their latest doctrinal shifts.