In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I believe it has happened in a couple places but there was one in Washinon State IIRC the hospital said they couldn't leave because of the pandemic.
Im pretty sure the hospital lost but they kept the nurses there for a couple months until the court decided.
My uncle is super pissed off that my cousin's wife is staying home and not working.
Childcare is so expensive she doesn't think it is worthwhile.
She was making 12 an hour, and childcare was eating around 700 a month, after taxes she was spending half of her time working just to pay for childcare.
My cousin was vocally against it until he figured out that with her clipping coupons, not driving, not eating lunch out every day etc., they actually have nearly the same spending money.
Worked in childcare for 5+ years, I'm convinced the entire industry is on the verge of collapse any time now.
We were dangerously low on staff, much less staff you want to trust your children with like 4 years ago and we were bleeding staff including myself.
Then COVID hit, some other things and I'm amazed any childcare is even available anymore.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is bad enough but I do not think our educational system and our healthcare system are too far behind.
It's a bad sign when Florida is allowing anyone with a service record to be a teacher and hospitals are suing nurses to stop them from going elsewhere for higher pay.
True, I guess what I'm saying is that childcare just won't exist at all soon.
Like I used to work after school before COVID and we were sorely understaffed which makes me wonder how they are still open now.
I can only imagine things are probably even more dysfunctional.
I never saw that study, a quick peruse looks like it's saying what I was saying like 5 years ago.
I honestly would love to go back to the industry but a lot needs to change first.
That's crazy.
Yeah everyday that the supervisor for my area would show up at my school she would come over and see with my 50+ kids.
She would tell me that they were hiring someone and I'd have someone to take some of the kids.
After like a year and about the third or fourth time she did this id just roll my eyes, go "right" and go back to working with kids.
Apparently they just recently started capping the number of kids who can sign up for the programs.
Which is nuts because some schools had like 100 kids a staff member and the CFO would talk about that like it was some badge of honour not a child care code violation.
Yeah I was working YMCA after school and before in Hawaii, it was 11 dollars, part time, split shift, no benefits.
I would say I don't know why I stuck around for as many years as I did but it was 100% for the kids.
Our program was relatively dirt cheap too, only like 150-200 (I can't recall exactly) for a kid and that was 4-5 hours a day 5 days a week and includes activities and other things.
There was just an expectation that we make sacrifices to support these people who made the decision to have children.
Whenever I suggested that maybe they needed to take on some of that sacrifice and pitch in a bit more so we could get more reasonable wages you got called selfish.
The result was a barely staffed childcare, and to be frank a lot of the staff were not fit to be working with kids (to contrary of popular belief, even just watching kids is not a zero skill job).
Yeah I moved jobs to housing, which is a bit better paywise and hours but a lot of the same problems.
A big part of the problem I've noticed is when you do human service jobs like these it's really hard to separate your personal life.
Like how do you just say I'm going to stop helping people when I clock out?
I'm not expecting a ton of money, but it would be nice to not be on the verge of qualifying for the programs I'm staffing.
How much is money worth?
That's an interesting question.
My eldest child, the one that got to see me at my roughest when I was working 60+ hour weeks for years at a time, is in his 20's now and we do not have a good relationship.
I also missed out on EVERYTHING because i was working.
Now all he does is ask me for money, and I give it to him because that's the only way I have to show love for him.
I was in a bad stretch for work between when he was 10 and 15, my wife found ONE picture of me with him doing anything together.
Older and wiser, I'd have rather had time with him, and money won't buy that now.
We have a generation of people who were raised by money, not by parents and lots of those kids really wanted to be raised by parents.
I think that's part of the problem in the US right now.
He's MAGA for life.
Thinks she's being lazy for staying home with his grandkids.
She asked if he would watch them so she could work and that was a solid no.
I think change would be hard but possible.
I think we need a more cognizant and informed voter base and people do seem to be paying more attention these days.
Then we need to vote for people who shun corporate donations (not easy to find) so they can flush corporate money out of politics.
It seems like a daunting task and I keep hoping we will get to a point that it is so obvious that shit isn't working in our favor that people demand change.
I ain't gonna hold my breath.