Worth noting that he immediately caved in the very next sentence, saying that this pretty much won’t change anything “unless US tests nuclear weapons first”.
We know US won’t, so there’s that.
Yet another empty threat designed to provoke a response.
So one of the interesting side-effects of the war in Ukraine is that it has shone a light on just how deeply corruption is established in the various Russian military arms and just how poor their equipment readiness is.
One of the reasons Moskova sank was because the fire extinguishers were all locked up to prevent theft….
Now one of the misapprehensions about nuclear missiles is that they are “break glass in case of war” store-and-forget systems.
Quite the contrary, they are temperamental, maintenance-heavy divas that need constant attention to keep serviceable.
Unless the Strategic Rocket Service is the one shining example of commitment and stewardship in Russian service, the odds on any given warhead/delivery system successfully launching, reaching the target, and detonating are extremely low.
It may well be that not a single Russian ICBM of any flavour is capable of full operational use.
Where this gets interesting is that the design philosophy of strategic nuclear weapons changed over time, moving away from a “single big bomb per target” paradigm to a “multiple overlapping small bombs per target” paradigm.
More, smaller bombs does more damage and makes it harder for a defender to shoot down the re-entry vehicles.
But it also means more points of failure.
For sure the Russians in charge of the Strategic Rocket Forces know this.
Putin might not, but the trigger-pullers do.
Those same people know that the Western nuclear arsenal is kept serviceable and is expected to work.
And they know that a first strike involves retaliation in kind.
Accordingly, any attempt at a first strike means the utter destruction of Russia, in exchange for inconveniencing the West and giving them ironclad causus belli for anything else they want to do.
This means that the result of a full-up “The Day After” first strike is likely to be a few small explosions spread across various cities, and a whole lot of low-order explosions with radioactive material mixed in with them - many of those at the launch facilities.
This isn’t “good” in an absolute sense - it still means a lot of dead people and a bunch of environmental cleanup, and there’s no way to put a happy spin on that.
But what it isn’t is the destruction of every city with a population over 25,000 people and the subsequent nuclear winter.
Commenting to say that according to US Major General Ben Hodges, the Western response to a first strike wouldn't even have to be nuclear.
Suppose Putin used a nuke in Ukraine.
The West has a range of devastating options such as taking out Russia's entire Black Sea fleet with conventional weapons.
The nuclear option would end very very badly for Putin.
Unlike the unreferenced Wall o' Text below which claims 'So anything done to Ukraine doesn't trigger Article 5,' let's see what actual experts have said.
Hodges goes on to describe the US taking out the entire Russian Black Sea fleet with conventional air and missile assets.
TL;DR NATO Article 5 is not a necessary condition for a devastating US response if Russia uses nukes in Ukraine.
But such a Russian attack could trigger NATO article 5 anyway if radiation from Russian aggression drifts across the border into any NATO country.
Ukraine is a weird case because while it has clearly expressed desires to be part of the EU and NATO, it isn't there yet.
So anything done to Ukraine doesn't trigger Article 5.