This should come as no surprise to anyone.
The Cuban government has always, and will always take Russia's side over anything that involves the US.
It's the core of their propaganda.
But there is one truth that prevails in Cuba: if you disagree with the regime, better keep it to yourself.
Should the wrong ears hear you speak against it, you probably won't see the next sunrise.
In retrospect, that's how Castro maintained his grip on power and brainwashed so many.
Internet access in Cuba and cellphones have been inaccessible until relatively recently.
For most of Castro's regime, all Cubans had as a source of information was national TV and word of mouth from outsiders (family in other countries or tourists).
There are many of the older generation, however that truly believe all this crap and support the government, while simultaneously asking themselves why they can't put food on the table.
(Usually, the US gets blamed for it, even as those at the top live luxuriously).
They expect countries near Russia to stay in fear of Russian invasion rather than ensure their security through joining NATO, so it was wrong of the US & NATO not to appease Russia.
Putin probably gave him some money to help start another Cuban Missile Crisis.
It would be the leverage that Russia desperately needs right now, and didn’t the US just vote down rescinding the embargo again?
You do not protect your country by giving it away.
The only negotiated peace Russia will accept is if Ukraine gives them land and condemns its people to oppression under Russian occupiers.
If Russia wanted peace without taking land, they could leave today.
It would be incredibly stupid to give Putin a victory in Ukraine by negotiating away territory, which is the only thing Putin will accept.
Any ceasefire will be used by them to rebuild their strenh.
Russia has shown that it wants all of Ukraine and they will try to take the rest again later, just as they did after taking Crimea in 2014.
No, my comment has nothing to do with accusing the right of supporting Cuba.
How is that “quite the take”?
Again, it seems like you’re purposefully misinterpreting my words.
Is English your second language or is your reading comprehension that bad?
Or are you just being disingenuous by purposefully re-interpreting the English language?
Honest questions.