- Cuba takes the money and does China’s bidding.
In the worst case they get blockaded by the US Navy, all trade stops, and all that money becomes useless.
- Cuba takes the money in return gives Beijing a bunch of empty promises like many African countries.
Seriously, what’s China going to do?
Invade a country that’s right next to the US?
All China can really threaten is to stop providing money.
China's war hawks probably want a military base in Cuba, but that will never happen.
We'd make Puerto Rico a state and let them annex Cuba before that happens.
I have no idea what will happen, but I do know the world and US is in a very different place than it was back then.
I'm not sure current decisions will be similar to past ones.
China is getting a little too cute for their own good.
This is an expensive piece of political theater because there certainly isn't anything China could do beyond spending money and big talk.
They are more susceptible to blockade than almost any country in the world.
China can't project naval power beyond Vietnam.
Meanwhile the US can park aircraft carriers on their doorstep.
Seize land?
How?
There really isn’t anything China can do if countries don’t pay back except cutting ties or going to war - not happening in the US’s backyard.
Is anyone even loaning to Cuba except China?
Don’t think they will lose much.
In the end, whether they can get loans is up to the lender.
The only thing they risk losing from defaulting and refusing to do China “favours” is China refusing to lend them more money.
I’m saying they are already high risk.
Which countries are currently loaning money to them or investing in them?
China is clearly trying to buy influence by giving them huge loans.
But once the money changes hands they don’t really have to give a crap about China unless they want more money from them.
Not to mention, there is no stopping another country from doing what China is doing, loan them money in hopes of influence ignoring the high risk of default.
But if the debtor countries refuse to give up the land and just declare bankruptcy, there is little China can do - and they suffer no real consequences because no one else was willing to lend them anyway.