In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Oh look at that, a great opportunity to remind everyone of how that zealotry fuels one of their more forgotten dogmas, and why that passion should scare the shit out EVERYONE on Earth: The Right wants to protect Jerusalem because, in their mind, it plays a key role in heralding The End Times.
To put it as potently and crudely as possible: They are a Death Cult who is CONSCIOUSLY trying to end the world so that they can self-fulfill their theology's apocalyptic prophecy.
And they will exercise whatever Government power they have to insure that they can set the dominoes in place.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is why I am genuinely concerned whenever the Christian Theocratic Party gains control of the White House and is, therefore, at arms-lenh with the nuclear codes.
Judgement Day = Singularity, and the global AI that seizes control on behalf of the oligarchs gets too powerful motivated by their greed and turns on them along with everyone else.
The AI judges us as team players or enemies based on our digital exhaust over the years.
Rapture = The Chosen are welcomed into the Promised Land of building new communities designed by AI and mostly built by robots that are green, vibrant, walkable and healthy.
There’s UBI because lazy trolls are obviously not invited.
The Antichrist = robot and deep fake spokesperson for the AI that speaks every language.
It’s basically an advanced Alexa plus a newscaster and popular politician and a PR spin doctor (i.e.
Nick Clegg of Meta).