In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The sheer number of foreign Countries and/or Govts (including fairly elected democratic Govts) that the USA has invaded /overthrown is 2nd to none.
These are well documented facts, not opinion.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
We are currently propping up/ supporting at least two genocides right now.
Our foreign policy has been to occupy and terrorize two different countries in the other side of the globe for nearly 20 years.
What are you talking about the US isn’t the same country that it was 60 years ago?
Which two countries?
We left Iraq more than a decade ago and only came back the second time because they asked us.
It is a really hard argument to make to say the US was worse than the Taliban in Afghanistan.
“..In addition, the U.S. has interfered in the national elections of countries, including Italy in 1948,[2] the Philippines in 1953, and Japan in the 1950s and 1960s[3][4] as well as Lebanon in 1957.
[5] According to one study, the U.S. performed at least 81 overt and covert known interventions in foreign elections during the period 1946–2000.
[6] According to another study, the U.S. engaged in 64 covert and six overt attempts at regime change during the Cold War.
1957 was more than 70 years ago.
Are we assuming that every country has the same foreign policy as it has 70+ years ago?
Was West Germany in the 90s the same country as it was under Hitler?
I am not arguing that these didn't happen, but most of the people involved in these have been dead for a decade or more.
U.S. policy clearly isn't the same as it was during the Cold war and that ended more than 30 years ago.
Hamas is the only Government on this list which was elected through a free and fair election.
Hamas is a mixed bag at best.
The rest were dictators in all but name and had horrendous human rights records.
To find a truly Democratic that the U.S. overthrew, you would have to look back more than 30 years at this point.