Russia will treat every town, village, gathering and city like Mariupol.
Bombing them to rubble worked in Chechnya, and so they will do the same in Ukraine.
Every time they hit civilian buildings, their audience at home and tankie cheer squad abroad cheer.
They never gave a flying fuck about Russian language speakers, finding neo-Nazis, or any other rhetorical point.
This is all about conquering land to control and exploit it.
They will do the same to Georgia, Armenia, Azaerbaijan, Khazakstan, etc until they are stopped by “the collective west” as they like to call it.
It's the Russian army attacking now, they actually collect their dead unlike Wagner.
Need to take a day off to cart home the hundreds of dead from the day before.
The whole mentality is “just go get it done!” , they want results with nothing spent on the process.
It’s such bullshit for the Russian people.
There is nowhere near 97% of Russias military in Ukraine, there is a seizable portion of it there with overall 1.15 million active personnel with 2 million in reserve there are only 200,000 to 250,000 currently in Ukraine.
That 200,000 figure also breaks down further as a large number of that personnel is working on supples, logistics, occupation and other behind the lines tasks.
The Kremlin is not stupid enough to send everything they’ve got into Ukraine as it would leave them with their pants down if regions like Dagestan and Chechnya got ideas again or for other civil unrest situations, in addition to holding back over half of their force incase of escalation as any nation going to war does.
Last time Russia had an attempted coup in 1993 the military was called in and decided to open fire, since Putin entered office the Russian government has built large amounts of paramilitary police forces excluding the standard police who we see break up riots and the Russian military is still happy to butcher “traitors”, so attempting a coup would just be a mass suicide attempt and the Russian people know it.
They know it so well that there are many Russian jokes about doing as you are told and not criticising the state otherwise you disappear.
And the Russian police splits into many branches who many of which are highly militarised and know what they are doing after fighting insurgencies and terrorists since the 90s, so a coup would just turn into a blood bath really quickly.
Trust me coming from a Brit our government and media spout the biggest load of nonsense going and tend to double back all the time so I would take it with a sizeable pinch of salt.
Now that is very true, they don’t care as it is their doctrine/military mentality they are proud that they threw men at machine guns in WW2 as it was patriotic it’s the same in Ukraine.
The Russians view the end of the cold war differently which is why, to the west it was a celebration and a step towards greater world stability but to the Russians it was a catastrophe.
They view it as them loosing their future which was to supposedly be bright as the USSR strived further whilst to the west the USSR was quite a dump to them it was like nothing they had ever seen before as conditions under the Tzar were abysmal, and since 1991 the living standards in Russia have been declining outside of the major cities so they see Putin as this amazing figure there to restore them back to the former glory.
I have a friend from Saint Petersburg who is anti Putin and when she told me about it all and how the Russian people are it’s seriously fucked.
Russians know the correct things to say when a camera is pointed at them.
"I support the government" "I am not politically active or involved" "I don't know anything about that".
Their lives and the lives of their families literally depend on it.