In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
then due to costs; recovery is incentivised with the likely lawsuit and counter lawsuit which creates over testing and over billing and legal fee cost spirals.
The US already spends more per capita on healthcare than a number of countries with better systems.
The problem is that a lot of this money ends up in the pockets of shareholders, and isn't used to actually improve public health.
There is enough money to give the American people much better healthcare than they currently have without reducing the defence budget.
That doesn't mean that the defence budget needs to be as large as it is, or that the Pentagon handles money well.
However, as presented here, this is a false dilemma.
Yep hard to believe Democrats get to be called "moderate" for blocking an increase in public insurance.
Not only would it lower inflation directly by lowering healthcare costs but it would also increase the labor pool as we would get rid of some unnecessary jobs in for-profit insurance.
End up in bureaucracy actually.
Checking if someone is in or out of network, cost codes, claims management to start.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What better time to make the system more efficient than when we have high inflation and not enough workers?
Yeah the ACA also had a back door in it so those administering privatized Medicare plans could make up to 40%.
Biden was the first president to really allow that and look at insurance stocks this year.
We spend $2000 more per person just on admin costs than Canada.
Thanks to for-profit insurance.
Plus for-profit insurance does a terrible job of getting good prices.
They will pay hundreds of dollars for a vaccine that costs 10 bucks in Canada just so they can keep their expenses high.
The higher their expenses the more they can raise premiums the following year due to their limit of 20% overhead.
When they pay 10X what Canada pays they can 10x their overhead allotment too.
It's $500 per person in Canada so yeah $2000 per person.
And given how much we are supposed to want to increase the labor pool right now to fight inflation, this would have been the perfect time to streamline our healthcare system.
I believe the $2500 per person in administrative costs seems accurate based on how many people in hosptial systems have full time jobs just dealing with insurance companies and how many more people actually work at insurance companies.
Even Obama said we would lose 1 million unnecessary middlemen jobs if we switched to public insurance.
So by not doing this we not only don't save the $2000 per person in admin costs but we see higher inflation elsewhere as we failed to increase the labor pool.
One study found we spend $2000 more per person than Canada just on administration.
And that's not coming from Medicare.
Unfortunately corporate media doesn't cover our higher healthcare costs in that manner.
Yep and with South Carolina being the first start in the primary, I don't even think Democrats will have to pretend to support moderate reforms like a public option or lowering the medicare eligibility age.
Biden as president was able to further privatize Medicare, increase profits for those administering it, and raise premiums by 9%.
It's only going to get worse on healthcare, not better.
I told people a year ago all you can do is buy health insurance stock and use the increase in that to pay for healthcare issues if you really need it.
This new model doubles down on Direct Contracting’s fatal flaws, inserting a profit-seeking middleman between beneficiaries and their providers.
ACO REACH will pay middlemen a flat fee to ‘manage’ seniors’ health, allowing them to keep 40% of what they don’t spend on care as profit and overhead,” PNHP President Susan Rogers said.
PNHP also criticized that traditional Medicare beneficiaries will still automatically be enrolled into ACO REACH entities without their consent, as in direct contracting.
To opt out, they would need to change primary care providers, Rogers said.
I could source the 9% increase in premiums but that's all very accessible information the government publishes as well.
Additionally, CMS did not bar companies that include private equity investors or other profit-seeking entities from participating, a key point of concern for PNHP.
One thing the article didn't mention that I did cite is how any potential savings from Biden's scheme comes from essentially forcing people onto more limited networks.
It's a Medicare cut in that regard but won't ever be viewed that way by corporate media.