In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Honestly, politically speaking, if he had continued on January 6 where he backed off, I think things would be objectively way worse for the GOP right now.
Could you imagine if this was attempted by a intelligent and competent president with a strong team behind him?
We would likely be living under an authoritarian regime as we speak.
Thank God Trump and the MAGA cult are a bunch of incompetent morons.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Look at the Bush team.
They were all Nixon era flunkies who had 20 years to think...
If I had it to do over... and they did.
That's exactly what the Trump era flunkies are going to look like.
Smarter from their mistakes, but the same goals.
Imagine if Trump had just a little bit of courage when he needed it.
There were multiple Forks in the Road where he chose the coward's way out, but I think by January 6, it was effectively too late, even if he had decided to order the violence to continue, or had resisted calling rioters off.
Think about the White House meeting on December 15 when they had Cohen in there, and then Cippollone and Herschmann and Clark.
It was supposed to be the meeting where Trump got Cohen to resign, and then they went over their plans to use Clark to order the military to seize voting machines in swing states, and do some sort of recount, which, of course would just be basically stealing the election.
And then the pushback was that Trump was informed that the entire justice department was going to resign and protest, and he balked.
That was his moment where he basically chickened out... and where the plot officially entered being hopeless.
If the coup plot was gonna work, he simply would have plowed right through that, and said, 'that's fine, we're doing it.
'.
It's still going to be an inflection point.
They can't just press that button and just walk off into the sunset like that.
Every single person in this country who pays attention to politics is going to know exactly what they did.
And then they're asking people just to say 'that's fine, might as well just go about our day.
'.
You know it happened we all do.
It's just getting pathetic people down playing it or throw conspiracies around.
And as much as Cippollone and Hershmann and Cohen probably suck as human beings, they undoubtedly knew exactly what was happening, and i'd categorize their behavior at that specific moment in time as courageous.
I would also categorize the Moore Supreme Court case as an overt attempt by the GOP to steal the election, it's just happening in slow motion.
Trump eventually would have been removed one way or another if he succeeded in remaining in power.
Many top military brass and the joint chiefs of staff wrote an open letter saying Biden won and the election was over.
All former defense secretaries also made a joint statement saying Biden won.
The military and much of the American political establishment was certainly not on Trump's side.
There was reports that military and intelligence agencies were.coordinating on plans of what to do if Trump doesn't step down.
Like they were ready to refuse orders.