In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The best case scenario at this point is that forever red states will be content with their power and leave blue states alone.
We'll just continue being functionally 2+ separate countries uneasily existing side by side.
The Missouri state legislature has ignored our ballot initiatives multiple times.
State legislators have gerrymandered so hard that there's nothing to hold them accountable in even the slightest sense.
It will get worse if the ISL theory is codified in the Moore v. Harper case.
Republicans control enough state legislatures that they can get to 270 if they win every single state where they control both state legislative chambers.
Basically, if ISL becomes law, the GOP will basically take over and make the country into a copy of Russia or Hungary.
That won't happen of course, because the republicans want to turn the entire country into the Deep South, forever.
At the moment there's nothing substantially stopping them.
It's going to happen, it just hasn't happened yet.
I wonder how many of the freedoms and just norms we've gotten used to in blue states/cities will be taken away.
The 2020s and 2030s are going to suck so hard.
Whatabout the urban/rural divide within states?
Will rural populations side with out of state fascists and try to become enforcers?
Like MN has a Democratic gov, senate, and house, but there are deep red pockets scattered all over the state.
They'd welcome a takeover--they'd see it as liberation.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
And then you have divides within the national guard, the army, etc.
It's hard to see how things would shake out when within states, police forces, the guard, etc allegiances are split.