Its time to undercut the Middle-eastern airlines who have been banking off Indian passengers, who travel between India and West.
I would prefer a good quality Indian airlines direct flight from NY to Major India cities instead of stopping over in Dubai or other gulf cities which are just glorified shopping malls labelled as airport and then squeezing into a smaller plan and boarding disruptions for a short journey.
I would want my travel money to be spent on either American or Indian airlines.
Aviation Turbine Fuel costs are high and are taxed on top of that, and that includes excise duty, VAT, etc.
It's not under GST and the busiest airports continue to charge high VAT.
The aviation ministry is trying to get the states to reduce that.
That said I too would prefer AI since I believe the treatment would be better and won't mind paying more for the convenience of not making stops in other countries where it always feels like being a racist magnet.
Indian Airlines can be competitive in price with Middle east due to the sheer volume.
May be government should look at charging foreign airlines flying the same route as Air India and subsidies AI, Those nations use their oil wealth to play dirty, we can certainly use laws without being too protectionist.
May be allow them to operate on shorter routes with smaller margins.
You'll notice that even if (or when) AI succeeds playing fair and square that will already invite the wrath of the competition.
For a developing country the only frictionless option is to not develop and accept aid.
Any actual development and there will be regular hit jobs.
Won't be too long before Al Jazeera goes after Tata.
There is a general pride in flying in your nation's airline because of the comfort and closeness to its passengers.
Besides, I don't understand how making a stop, taking a parking bay spot, unloading passengers and re-loading them with luggage is more economical than carrying 3hrs extra worth of fuel.
Its not like the connecting plane flies without any jet fuel.
Most people traveling from West pay over $1000 in ticket and spend atleast $100 getting to airport, its not much an issue paying additional $50 or $100 for a direct flight which takes you home 14hrs instead of 22hr.
Going from India to Europe I can see it being advantageous to stop in Dubai, because fuel weighs so much that a lot of the fuel is actually burned to carry the fuel that's used to carry the passengers.
If you break it up into shorter segments it becomes a lot more profitable to operate the route, and that's what cargo operates try to do since freight doesn't care much about stops.
However Dubai is not on the way to the US, especially if anyone is still using a polar route over Russia, so I don't see the need to route through there.