In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
He’s in the worst possible position and it’s all his own doing; the moment he announces, he had to pay eye watering legal bills, but he thinks (taps head) that being a candidate will protect him.
So he’s trying to run out the clock by suing the J6 committee (with GOP money) and only when everything fails will he then announce but by then it’ll be too late as the J6 comities will have already referred to DOJ.
I’ve actually wondered whether the DOJ are waiting for him to announce so the financial pressure of the legal fight will make him fold (like he always does when there’s no way left to stall).
Not trying to be fecesious here, but let's distinguish that it is the RNC paying Trump's legal bills.
Equating the GOP and RNC is incorrect.
Understanding that the party national committees are the leadership structure of the parties in a way, and not the party itself, is important.
I'm sure you guys know this, but it's helpful verbiage when discussing these issues to label them correctly.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The DNC and RNC are the cause of much of their parties woes.
(Undermining Bernie in 2016), (paying for Trump's legal defense).
They have their own bylaws, which have been changed over time to fuck the will of their constituents on their side of the fence.
Not too hard to become a voting member either, if you already have party loyalty.
Maybe it's time for a hostile takeover of each, within their own bylaws and allowed structure (voting in new committee leadership internally by voting members), by more centrist/moderate members.