In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yeah, if you’re worried about censorship now, wait until 230 is revoked or weakened.
Conservatives have no fucking clue what they’re talking about.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The fact that these laws even passed should tell anyone how stupid we've become regarding 1A.
Can you imagine starting a newspaper only to have the government tell you have to run some readers' letters or some op-eds?
Can you imagine being told you have no agency in picking what runs in your newspaper?
I guess it's all "small government" and "free market" until you realize your viewpoints are abhorrent and untenable for a vast majority of Americans.
Then it's "we'll force social media platforms to carry my violent, racist screeds!
".
DingDing This was already proven during the age of broadcast TV the fairness doctrine died when TV switched.
They had systems in place then to do the same.
People forget things far to easily, it is why they get away with so much shit.
An over-simplification could lead one to your conclusion, that the Fla. and Tx.
laws are "literally" the same as the Fairness Doctrine.
But they aren't.
And I suspect you may also be confusing elements of the 'equal time rule.'
That only applies to political candidates.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
And it's not like the Fairness Doctrine said anything remotely as explicit as Florida's law.
Broadcasters under the Fairness Doctrine weren't forced to "platform" political candidates, for example.
They just had to devote some airtime to "controversial" matters.
They weren't told how, for how long, or when to do that.
They weren't told that certain views must be included.