Worse than most other attacks that targeted infrastructure , they specifically targeted civilians there homes and the mains streets they use every day.
Hopefully when this war is finally won by Ukraine it will be declared that russia is a terrorist state and be punished.
All i really want to see is no russians allowed to cross the borders from russia and russia to get even harsher sanctions until they openly denounce the war crimes and send the perpetrator's to the hauge or even better to ukriane courts to be punsihed.
They're already circling the drain, and that's a huge reason why they're trying to hard to prevent Russians from leaving.
Obviously, we need to ensure those Russians do not export their toxic culture to the rest of us.
But if they want to assimilate into the societies they immigrate to, they make those societies stronger whilst making Russia weaker.
Russians are xenophobic af and nationalistic af.
If you let them in, they will just shit on your head.
Very small amount of russians in Germany are against the war.
Very small amount of russians in USA are against the war.
Most of them support it, they just don't want to be dying there.
Which is stupid in it's own right, it's like if China killed every single Taiwanese and annexed the island.
Yeah, you got the land, but it's absolutely worthless now without people who lived there and everyone hates you.
Also, I live in fucking Kiev right next to a power station, and whenever russians are attacking power stations, I always hear anti-air working near us or missiles blowing up.
This time most of them just avoided our place entirely, which is weird for an attack that is targeted at power stations.
...Bruh, this article directly tells you that rockets hit all kinds of civilian houses, and barely any power stations, when in all previous attacks they hit power stations pretty regularly and pretty accurately.
Do you even read, bruh?
You want to tell me that all the missiles just HAPPENED to hit the houses this time?
Yes, russian missiles ARE shit, but lets not pretend as if they are above terror attacks and they just "happened" to hit schools, hospitals and civilian houses.
They dropped a bomb on a theater with "children" written on it, ffs.