KHERSON, Ukraine (AP) — When a dozen Russian soldiers stormed into Dmytro Bilyi’s home in August, the 24-year-old police officer said they gave him a chilling choice: Hand in his pistol or his mother and brother would disappear.
Bilyi turned his gun over to the soldiers, who carried machine guns and had their faces concealed.
But it didn’t matter.
They dragged him from his house in Ukraine’s southern village of Chornobaivka to a prison in the nearby regional capital of Kherson, where he said he was locked in a cell and tortured for days, his genitals and ears shocked with electricity.
More than two weeks after Russians retreated from the city, accounts such as his are helping to uncover sites where torture allegedly took place in Kherson, which Kremlin forces occupied for eight months.
Five such rooms have been found in the city, along with at least four more in the wider Kherson region, where people allege that they were confined, beaten, shocked, interrogated and threatened with death, police said.
If Putin wanted to negotiate he should have treated the ukranians as the "lost Russians" he claims they are.
For every Ukrainian he kills and tortures he leaves behind a family fanatically opposed to any sort of peaceful coexistence with Russia.
He thought it would work because he made Russia hate Russia and so far it's worked out fine.
I guess the proof that Ukrainians have a distinct and valuable culture is that they're not willing to become a bunch of self-hating, beaten down dogs like the sad Russian population.
Generally speaking, westerners gave up this sort of thing.
Not that it doesn’t happen, but when it does it is roundly condemned.
“It was like hell all over my body,” Bilyi recalled.
“It burns so bad it’s like the blood is boiling ...
I just wanted it to stop,” he said.
Water boarding was bad, making dudes get into a pile whilst naked was bad.
But shocking a dude’s genitals for no reason?
Arbitrarily murdering, raping and abusing human beings?
That is some next level evil.