I've consistently heard that Russians tend to answer such questions not with their own opinion, but with the answer that they think will result in them being left alone to live their lives.
If that's true, it'd be suggesting that Russians either feel very strongly about it, or think the government itself also wants a way out of the war.
It has been pushed by Kremlin.
You remember Musk after reportedly talking with Putin?
Kremlin wants to freeze the front line before they are kicked out.
It's a leaked Kremlin poll, which means it isn't actually a leak and it isn't actually a poll.
It's the Kremlin testing the waters to see how people feel about the possibility of negotiating a settlement.
Throw it out there like it's a leaked poll with middling support and see how people feel about it.
If there's backlash against it (eg - "we should find who these traitors are and put them in prison"), then the government knows not to consider negotiating a settlement.
If there isn't backlash (since few people would outright voice support for it since doing so is a criminal offense), then the government knows that it can consider negotiating a settlement because the populace won't reject it or rebel against it.
If it's an official agent of the government, they'll just parrot whatever the official line from the government is, or otherwise say what appears to be most in support of the government (or more specifically, Putin).
Regardless, I think Russia wants to negotiate and end the war, but they don't want to cede any more territory.
This poll is a moot point because that isn't a scenario the Ukrainians want.
Polls in Russia are a fickle game.
Some are legitimate reflections of how the average Russian feels.
Some are reflections of how the government wants to represent the feelings of the people.
This "peace talk" thing is a ploy that has been put forward by Kremlin representatives as well.
What they usually mean is that they are happy with what they got and don't want to get kicked out.
Like a burgler in your livingroom ready to negotate how to split up your apartment.