Western society, where liberalism and capitalism are gonna meet in the middle allowing people the "freedom" to choose death and to allow companies to make bank.
we love it.
Because they are the only ones that know themselves.
If they have only have suicidal ideations once in a while or have them every single minute of an day.
Essentially they know if they are truly want to die or they do not and this just a one time episode that they have ever couple months.
If you want it to be fair, give everyone access to euthanasia.
No one who doesn’t want to be here should be forced to remain.
Just set some basic conditions like talking to a counselor first and a “cooling off” period where people have plenty of time to consider their choice.
Some mental illnesses can only be managed by medication and therapy; the symptoms, emotional pain, and suffering will always be a part of the patient's life and may even grow worse and harder to manage over time.
If, while lucid and of sound mind, a person knows that continuing life is a punishment to them, then by all means let them check out.
Forcing them to keep living against their wishes is a life sentence.
TBH, the same can be said for patients who are terminally/chronically ill and doped up on meds all the time for physical pain.
An authority figure could declare their wishes null and void due to mental impacts of painkillers.
yh i mean rather than shift societal attitudes and stigmas, rather than invest in healthcare programmes, rather than trying to get people to think about wellfare and wellbeing, lets let private companies make money of people offing themselves.
this would essentially say to people with mental disabilities - you're life isn't as valuable as a "healthy" individual so if you want just stop living.
Also who determines how severe the mental disabilty needs to be to access this?
or are we saying even people with mild anxiety fit into this category?
The only the person that has been mentally ill since childhood could possibly make the somewhat justifiable choice of euthanasia for themselves.