In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
yup, the whole "red wave" that was supposed to happen in the last midterm flopped hard, they just barely got the house back and solifided their minority status in the senate, trump lost the gop everything, in just a couple months both the white house, senate AND house went from red to blue.
Mccarthy had to make so many deals and concessions he was basically neutered of any real infuence before he was even voted in.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
And many of the people who did get benefits will no longer see them when they expire soon… except for ultra wealthy and real estate business owners.
Those cuts were permanent.
His “tax cut” removed thousands and in some cases tens of thousands in deductions for millions of people.
Actually, Trump set up the expiration date with the expection that he was going to get two terms to make it look like as soon as he leaves office the next guy raises taxes.
if trump does somehow get back in it will be even worse, he will be too busy weaponizing the doj to bury the countless lawsuits hes involved in to do anything meaning all his advisers and secretaries will be running rampant doing whatever they want, apparantly donald trump stopped holding cabinet meetings and the white house was a ghost town after the election results came in.
i think secretly even mitch mcconnell is ashamed of the state of the gop, they went from being somewhat sane and being able to at least uphold an appearance of normality, now the dams broke and the insanity that used to be restricted to the lower rungs of the gop ladder has been flung all the way to the top.