Straight up a million dollars per tank?
That’s an incredible deal, I know Russian tanks kind of aren’t great but one for $1 million is just insane, I mean a single Abrams would be around $10 million, if built from scratch.
> The United States, The Netherlands and the Czech Republic are teaming up to deliver to Ukraine 90 upgraded T-72B tanks.
I read in a Czech article that these tanks come from the industry stocks, not the army \[1\] \- so I would not expect these to be top of the line, more like old surplus that was sitting in a warehouse somewhere.
That's just my speculation of course.
It doesn't bring back their lives, but if I were a Dutch person I'd be very happy about my tax money spent this way.
Never forget the terrorist regime Russia shot down civilian flight MH-17, killing 298 people, of which almost 200 were Dutch.
A big issue with Russia’s gear is that it has been poorly maintained because of corruption.
A tank isn’t going to be as effective if it’s night vision and radio has been sold off.
Second is their tactics.
The battalion tactical group has a lot of firepower, but is short on infantry.
So during the initial phases of the invasion (during the mud season), you had columns of Russian armor strung out on roads without adequate infantry screens.
This allowed light Ukrainian units to decimate them with ATGMS.
Another reason is Russian logistics weren’t up to the task.
Putin didn’t expect Ukraine to fight back and they didn’t have a plan B.
Hundreds of Russian vehicles were abandoned because they got stuck or just ran out of fuel.
When used appropriately, tanks such as these can be extraordinarily effective.
Ukraine is also used to using these tanks.
A lot easier to use when you’re already familiar with it.
Lastly, it’s just comes down to numbers.
Britain has about 300 hundred Challenger 2s, France has a couple of hundred Leclercs.
They really can’t send many of those without undermining their own readiness.
There are probably a couple of thousand of Leos out there, but there scattered among several armies.
Only Western tank out there in large enough numbers to make a real difference is probably the US which has a few thousand Abrams in storage.
Those are great, but have a huge logistical demand and would be a challenge to maintain.
If they were trash, which much of it is, Ukraine knows how to use these systems and so it’s better to send them these and replace the Dutch tanks with modern western ones that they have the time to train on.
The more different weapons systems that use different fuel, different ammo, require different crews, have different layouts, etc.
the more logistical struggles you create which leads to more problems.