Germany still had a gigantic wall splitting it down the middle \30 years ago that the Russians installed.
Poland isn't the only one with a good reason to out spend everybody on defense.
The way I've been told is that yes, her party origins at one point had fascist tendencies.
That was a lifetime ago and no longer is a component of their platform.
Thus far she has shown little to no indications of actually being a fascist.
Meloni has been very open and vocal about providing weapons and support for Ukraine - despite her other politics, on Ukraine she’s been consistently solid since taking office and has pretty much locked step with the rest of NATO.
Both parties pretty strongly support aid to Ukraine at this point.
Aside from that, us Americans would love other democracies to step up and invest more in defense.
Something about the way Germany behaves now makes me upset.
It's cowardly that modern Germans are so against supplying Ukraine with defensive weapons.
The biggest bully of the 20th century now suddenly is ardently against weaponizing a nation that is struggling to survive.
They act like they have a reason to be so against war.
For once, Germany can thrive and be on the good side of history, but they seem so afraid.
Like they're morality-bound to never be involved in war again.
It's fine to be involved with war.
Just don't fucking do what you all did throughout the 19th and 20th centuries.
Shit gets to me.
No, I'm speaking to the odd psychology of modern Germans.
It isn't new behavior.
They aren't being strategically cautious now.
Post-WWII hardship should force reflection and introspection.
It didn't for the West Germans.
They went on their merry way with ex Nazis as members of their governments and military.
Rebuilding everything with a tremendous amount of help.
When reunification was finally possible, they went into East Germany and fucked over it's citizens.
They kept on acting exactly like their ancestors.
Germany wants to make money while France keeps the old empires in check as best it can in Africa and the Middle East.
I think that's a cowardly position for the Germans to take given their history.
They don't get pity for being destroyed.
They had to be destroyed and now they want to sit the hard decisions out.