In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That (plus the two months of inflammatory rhetoric leading up to it) makes it clear to you and me and any honest viewers that he was inciting a riot, but none of that amounts to a winnable court case by itself.
Even though you smile and laugh when random yells of Hang Mike Pence interrupt your speech, and you say things like I'll march down to the Capitol with you and we'll fight like hell and take our country back for an hour, but throw a peacefully in there once somewhere, you're all good.
Iit's not just that he threw in the word "peacefully" once, after spending two solid months whipping his supporters into a frenzy and telling them they need to "fight like hell."
It's that a good lawyer (assuming Trump could find one willing to work for him) could easily establish reasonable doubt.
"I'll march down to the Capitol with you" could be (the lawyer would argue) about peaceful protest.
"Fight like hell" could be a metaphor for a political battle.
And of course the clip with the word "peacefully" would be played repeatedly for the jury.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They're only going to get one shot at this at the federal level, realistically, and they'd better get it right.
And not only get it right, but make the case so overwhelmingly airtight that a corrupt Supreme Court can't find an excuse to spike the case.
Also throw in a bunch of comments from those who stormed the Capitol to show that there was no clear consensus about what exactly Trump wanted them to do -- because, says the lawyer, if the people who heard Trump and responded weren't sure what he wanted them to do, how can anyone claim that Trump's intent was clear?
Material that the Jan 6 commission uncovered, such as the Eastman memos, builds a stronger case, but even then much of it doesn't directly implicate Trump.
The conspiracy case seems like the only potential slam dunk here, the other two likely referrals, insurrection and obstruction of official proceedings, not so much, for the reasons you mention, and even conspiracy could be a very difficult case.
On the other hand, not pardoning Trump would piss off the MAGA remnant, and while their numbers may be shrinking they will still be a large enough voting bloc to deeply hurt any chances of getting a second term.
You bring up some good points, but if Trump is nominated, and wins the general, he will pardon himself.
If Desantis wins the GOP nomination, I believe he'll have to pardon Trump, because that will be the question he's asked again and again until he give a yes or no answer.
To keep the MAGAs onboard, since he won't be able to win without them, he'll be forced to say yes, and then follow through, assuming he can still win.
Likewise for any other GOP nominee.
I know it takes time, but the longer it drags on, the less likely anything will happen.
And it will all be moot if a Republican takes the white house in 2024, because it will likely result in a pardon, whoever the president is.
I think that's far from obvious.
It's a lose-lose situation.
On the one hand, pardoning Trump would alienate so many independents (and perhaps some former-MAGA types who soured on Trump -- like most of my relatives who don't even want to admit they ever supported him now), that it would deeply hurt any chances of getting a second term.
The stronger the evidence against him, the greater the non-MAGA backlash if someone like DeSantis pardons him.
I also disagree that it would all be moot.
Indicting a former President is huge.
If they get a conviction, even if it's tied up in appeals and a pardon makes sure he never sees actual consequences, convicting a former President is monumental.
Don't get me wrong, I'd have loved for him to have been indicted already, and be on trial for something like insurrection that would potentially keep him out of the white house, and on house arrest.
Agree, but in Trump's case, it could work in his favor, his only campaign move is to have something/someone to attack, 2016 was brown people and Hillary, 2024 would be Democratic-deep-state-witch-hunters.
His base and the right-wing-fact-free-zone-media would be all over it, evidence irrelevant.
That all assumes I'm not wrong in thinking that Trump would not withdraw from the race if he were indicted, no matter the charges.
A normal candidate would, but I don't see it happening with Trump, his ego wouldn't let him, among other things.
Agree again, but would that really deter a future Trump from trying all this stuff again?
I'll have to think about that one a bit.
If you take the passport of a guy with a private plane and international dictator friends, does it really matter?
Is house arrest or jail really possible for him, if found guilty?
If found guilty of conspiracy to treason, is there a possibility he will face the Ethel and Julius Rosenberg treatment?
(BTW his friend and mentor Roy Cohn prosecuted that case).
There is another major factor of the two year period from indictment through to the potential of a pardon: Trump's own behavior.