In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Let me guess, this is somehow going to fuck those of us in the states with a diesel automobile even more than we're already being fucked because OPEC.
I cannot in my wildest dreams afford an electric automobile that meets the range I need and my diesel car has been good to me.
I've got over 200,000 miles on the odometer and it's been an incredibly reliable car.
I have no reason to sell it nor any desire to.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It takes me 550 to 600 miles before I need to refuel my car.
The price stings (lowest price currently is $5.21), but I'm not exactly at the pump every other week.
200,000 miles really isn't a lot for a diesel, they're known for their high mileage.
My particular TDI diesel engine from VW is wildly considered the most reliable diesel engine VW ever manufactured.
There's a few people out there who have hit 1,000,000 miles with this engine.
The day I do ever get something new, I'll still keep it as a winter beater is it's a beast in the snow.
Plus, being a manual, it's a lot of fun to drive then too.
You're not wrong, but it was amusing how long it took gasoline automobiles to catch up to the fuel efficiency of my 22-year-old car.
It was fun owning one of the few cars on the road that could hit 50+ mpg while not being a complete slog.
My game plan is to drive this thing until long-range electric automobiles become economical in price.
At that point, I'll be reserving this car for the Michigan winters.
It's shockingly good in the snow, even the deep stuff.
The engine also is of a rare breed of diesel that happily cranks over in the sub zero temps without putting up a fight.