In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Especially frustrating considering even with the Bible, they have no code of ethics.
Ten commandments?
Eh, that's Jewish.
Sure, they kept the Old Testament around, but considering Christians believe Satan is a central figure in those books (despite the Devil, Satan making 0 appearances) I don't think they have the most devout understanding.
I left the church long ago but satan definitely shows up in the Gospels to Most people would say that he’s also the offerer of the fruit to Eve and the one making the bet with God over Job but as those books are much much older I’ll avoid wading into that particular argument.
Job is also not "Satan, the devil", but just "a Satan" or "the Satan", as in, the opposer, enemy, or adversary.
Pretty sure they're talking about baking bread using human dung to cook with, no to eat it driectly.
IDK though, the Bible is kinda shit when it comes to simply and effectively purveying unambiguous information (poor quality for a holy book imo).
This school board realizes they just basically forced all of those teachers to explain these things to their students right?
The kids are gonna hear about this change in policy, and they ARE gonna ask incessant questions.
Read Genesis again.
It's just a talking snake.
The idea that it's Satan is extra-Biblical, originating with things like the Book of Job.
Satan is just a Hebrew word (noun/verb, never proper noun) that stuck around through translations and transliterations.
The New Testament, using contemporary works that never made it to canon, incorporated several ideas (including the Greek concept of "the devil") to create Satan, the Fallen Angel.
The closest thing to Satan is in idr if it's Chronicles or Samuel, which tell the same story of David.
The original was told as "The wrath of Yahweh burned against Israel."
The later one changed it to "A Satan rose against Israel."
(iirc, idr whether it was Israel or what n don't feel like searching).
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Point is, Satan (as we know him today) is a concept that the authors of the Old Testament did not possess.
The Satan of the New Testament is still not fully formed to how we know him today.
Most of that came from Patristics, Dante's Inferno, and Paradise Lost.
For instance, in the New Testament, Hell not specified as being hot, that was decided by allegorical interpretation of when in Revelation John talks about a pit and a lake of fire.
There was a pit outside of Jerusalem, a valley, where trash was thrown and constantly burned.
John was likely just talking about being thrown in the trash heap, not into some mythical place deep within the earth.
Hell was actually cold, with early ideas of the Fallen Angel being imprisoned in ice.
Lucifer is an even later development, from I forget which King in the Jewish Bible that was known as the star of the morning, which in Latin is Lucifer.
So, in the Latin and later translations, that King became Lucifer and suddenly Satan is directly in the Old Testament.
It's all quite fascinating, because even by Christian standards the idea of Satan is rather fantastical and unsupported by the texts (unless given a lot of allegorical interpretation not intended by the author).
I mean, I find the whole notion of deities, angels, and demons to be primitive superstition, so my view should be unsurprising.
Still, huge influence on society today.