In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I’ve often wondered why interviewers so rarely ask GOP lawmakers to reconcile their apparently newfound concern over deficits with the party’s many decisions to massively increase deficits.
Perhaps media interlocutors fail to ask not because they’re lazy or ill-prepared, but because they were able to differentiate the two distinct species of Republicans earlier than the rest of us were.
You mean the GOP-owned, GOP-controlled, GOP-guided propaganda mill in print, radio, and television forms intentionally spreading lies and misinformation to brainwash as many people as possible?
That "media?"
If only we had laws against one organization or oligarch owning all forms of media -- oh wait, we DID!
They were revoked.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The playbook is not so hard to understand.
During Republican administrations, run up the deficit with tax cuts for the wealthy and huge military budgets.
During Democratic administrations, fight all social spending in the name of concern about deficits.
You say that.... when in 2 years the "other" party has cut the deficit in half.
Literally.
Halfway through an administration.
During a massive recession.
During a time where we're about to hit WW3.
We've cut more money out of the budget than almost ever before.
One party did that, and they do something similar every single time they've been in control.
Since I was a kid I even saw that from single digit ages, the GOP ruins the economy, and the DNC rebuilds it from a terrible starting position.
At the time I didn't know what that meant between the parties, but it was a truism all that time ago and still is today.
One party is fiscally responsible and always has been.
You've just never looked, never admitted it, or been too enamored with the GOP's own press releases about themselves to notice.
You aren't alone, but the facts have been there all your life.
Sure as gravity pulls "down" and sure as you breathe air to live...
But... it is saying much.
It's saying a lot.
Every time a GOP president has literally driven the economy to tatters, shreds even, it has been a DNC president that claws the way back to a positive standing point for this country.
From a negative to a positive every time.
Every GOP president has taken it from a good, stable place to the utter fecal-lined-gutters of the middle ages.
Without exception.
The GOP have padded their own wallets and the wallets of the ultra rich 1% at the expense of every other citizen of this nation every chance they get, and the DNC has clawed back basic living wages, rights, benefits, vacation times, laws against child labor, laws against exploiting and underpaying people, minorities, genders.
The DNC has been by a long country mile "better" at all forms of economy than the GOP has.
Every time.
That's not "both sides," and that's not "better but not saying much" -- it's night and day.
Which has suddenly switched because there is a Democratic President, and the Republicans figure they can get the public to blame him for caving to there hostage-taking.