In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
To address the title, the liberal advocacy group was caught trying to make it sound like the derailment was Trumps fault because he rolled back the Obama era policy, but in fact, that policy did actually not apply to this scenario.
E2: upon reading the newer comments, I misunderstood your point and yea you’re right.
The title does violate the rules.
I’ll just leave this here until the post gets removed I guess.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Idk seems pretty fair to me.
The advocacy group made a claim abou the Obama enacted brake policies and Trump era rollbacks in the context of the spill.
While those policies were enacted and rolled back by the administrations that the advocacy group claimed (the truth part), the claim was framed in a way that asserts that the rollback was, at least in some part, to blame for for the tragedy in East Palestine.
This is not true because apparently, even if the policy was still in place, the policy did not apply to this particular train’s specifications.
Also, that’s really not what the article is trying to say.
Politifact deemed the statement “mostly true”, and so what the hell are you talking about?
I already read the article days ago when it came out.
The commenter above you is referring to the sub rules that state the title must be the exact same as the author of the actual article.
And so this will very likely taken down.
I just need to open the article and see that your title isn't even close to the actual title.
Like a dozen words, bro.