Another example of neocon failure.
Venezuela policy was run by Elliott Abrams, who insisted on backing Guaido to the hilt.
Maduro isn't a liberal democrat, but blatant attempts to remove him with neocon recipes from the early 2000s were bound to fail...
What's the neocon failure?
The only thing that failed here was democracy and Maduro pulled off a nice transition to full dictatorship.
The democratically elected government of Venezuela selected Guaido as their president when Maduro's last legal term ended.
That's not "neocolonialism" but simple democracy.
Reminder - The Venezuelan opposition was freely elected by an overwhelming supermajority of Venezuelans in 2015.
Maduro responded to this by overthrowing the entire elected legislature...and just creating new one out of thin air.
I never claimed that Guaido was created by Abrams (or by anybody else) or questioned the influence of his electoral bloc.
My comment was about American policy in dealing with the situation.
And American policy, in turn, dragged along the Canadians, Europeans, Japanese etc.
Neocon stands for "neoconservative", not "neocolonial".
Elliott Abrams, who was responsible for Venezuela policy under Trump and who began the whole "Guaido is the legitimate president" thing, comes straight out of the Bush 43 neocon group.
The same people responsible for Afghanistan and Iraq.
Sounds like a coup to me (US news media on all sides agree with that).
Regardless, liberals interfering in the election politics of a sovereign nation runs counter to liberalism.
Venezuelan society is deeply polarized (not unlike American society) but in the case of Venezuela this is aggravated by a very difficult socio-economic situation.
Blatantly calling for the overthrow of Maduro will not do in the world of 2023.
That doesn't change the fact that the Venezuelan people voted for the opposition to run the country...by a landslide.
The Venezuelan opposition (until recently led by Guaido) IS THE DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED GOVERNMENT OF VENEZUELA.