I don't understand if Shiks need an independent state of "Khalistan" then why don't they protest against Pakistan which has Lahore and holds more significance to Shiks and has a greater area compared to Punjab in India?
They have been wiped out pretty much in Pakistan so they have every reason not to go against them.
They are scared.
One can ask one of them where would the capital be?
If they don’t answer Lahore you know why!
As to damaging religious places of Hindus.
If They want to instigate Hindus in india retaliate against Sikhs so they can claim refugee status in western countries.
So it’s a win win for Khalistanis but not for Hindus and Sikhs in India.
Well I was recently in Canada and I can assure you that there are Sikhs who do care about it but they are a small minority.
Many of these Sikhs left India in the 70s and 80s and are not really attached to India anymore, they have established themselves in Canada where they are powerful and they use this movement to basically get funds.
They are quite aggressive and those Sikhs who are opposed to their movement generally prefer to remain silent given the threat and intimidation tactics the Khalistani supporters generally use.
Sikhs who have voiced support for India or opposed the Khalistan movement have been physically attacked and in very extreme and rare cases even been killed.
So it makes sense for the pro-India Sikhs to mostly keep it to themselves and go about their business.
They don’t need to go out and actively confront these people and bring potential harm to themselves and their families.
They maintain good relations with other Indian communities in Canada and don’t engage themselves in these Khalistan activities.
Vast majority of Sikhs don’t really care about it.
Sikhs who live in India mostly don’t care about it and are very well integrated with the Hindus.
Even those Sikhs who may not be happy with how things are in India, do realize that the so called Khalistan will be a literal hell and a Sikh version of Pakistan.
Nobody wants to live in a theocratic religious state.
Also the claim of the Khalsa raj and rule of the Sikhs, one has to understand that Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s Punjab was a kingdom not a country.
It had a Muslim majority population and there is no way in hell that Sikhs along with Hindus would have continued to rule over a volatile Muslim majority for centuries.
It was like the Jammu and Kashmir kingdom that existed in 1947, a Muslim majority ruled by a Hindu Rajput king and we all know what happened there.
It is simply not possible to create a land locked country between India and Pakistan and in order to create this so called Khalistan, the Khalistanis will have to literally drive out more than 15 million indigenous Punjabi Hindus out of Punjab and there is no way in hell that can be achieved.
The entire country is envisioned as a religious theocracy.
Moreover, this country will be dependent economically on either India or Pakistan to survive and you can imagine what Pakistan will do to this so called Khalistan.
The country will have no economy.
The only people who vouch for such a state are those who have no idea of history, geography and economics.
If you go and view some of these Khalistani websites, their proposed Khalistan includes Jammu, Haryana, Indian Punjab, Himachal and parts of Rajasthan, the problem is that would be a Hindu majority Khalistan.
If the Khalistanis want a Hindu majority Khalistan then why not live with Hindus in India anyway?
Was there any time when this was not the case.. State of Punjab is Sikh majority but there's significant hindu population too, almost around 40%.
Hindus and muslims at the time chose to follow sikhism and became sikh.