Subsonic ammo, they move slower than the speed of sound and as a result are much quieter than normal ammunition.
The trade off is that they generally have less "oomph" so body armor is more effective against them, and are naturally slower so long range shots are effectively useless.
Subsonic ammo + suppressor is as close to the Hollywood "Silencers" as your going to get.
Ya, a clearly insignia covered medic was not shot, a man in civilian garb was.
Come on, its not even like the article is a long read or written at a advanced level of English comprehension.
How much do you people get paid, per hour or post?
Post per hour?
Im not claiming the medic was shot.
I am stating the IDF shot in their direction and THAT is a Geneva Convention.
It is mentioned in the part I quoted.
"[The medic]... was wearing a clear first aid vest when the shooting happened," it said, adding both the men who were shot were declared dead at hospital.
".
They shot in the direction of/at the medic and hit the innocent guy trying to help.
Shooting at medics is a violation of the Geneva Conventions.
"Palestinian paramedics said Mr Bouaqneh and a medic were both approaching the wounded militant outside the house.
"At that moment the Israeli soldiers shot high velocity bullets at them and a bullet hit the teacher... in the chest while he was trying to help the injured," the Palestinian Medical Relief Society (PMRS) said in a statement to the BBC.
You have absolutely no evidence, or even statements in the article that state that a medic was shot.
The article says a militant and a civilian teacher trying to render aid to a militant was shot.
And the 50+ people downvoting my last statement seem incapable of reading a very short article in favor of someone blatantly lying or didn't read the article at all.
I absolutely no way can you prove that the IDF was trying to shoot the medic short of the shooter volunteering the information.
Shooting in the general direction of someone is not shooting at them.
Geneva conventions don't say you cant shoot anywhere near the medic, it says they are "protected and respected".
Was the medic between the two groups shooting at each other?
We know none of this, what we do know is that the medic was in fact not hit, therefore we have no way of knowing if he was be shot at.
If the accounts from the witnesses are correct they had to be shooting in the direction of a medic to hit the guy near him.
As for the teacher, its sad that he lost his life.
Then I have to ask was the Palestinian group firing on the IDF in officially recognized uniforms or were they trying to blend into the populace.
That is also in the conventions and I haven't seen a single person bring up yet.
If a group of people are shooting at you in civilian clothing, and you shoot a person in civilian clothing in that area during the firefight, its not your responsibility.
Its the responsibility of the fighters using the civilian populace as a shield.
We have this commander that was shot and killed so it was a military operation, were they in uniform?
As there was an active fight going on it is entirely possible the IDF was not trying to kill the medic but still shooting in the direction of the medic is a crime.
Your questioning as to whether the militants were uniformed is frankly foolish.
These militants aren't part of a government that signed these conventions because Palestine is not an actual country that has those rights.
It's one of the reasons why Palestine needs to be separate of Israel so then they can be held accountable for what would normally be a war crime but there is far too many financial incentives for either group to let the war end.
Let me be clear I dont think the IDF shooter intended to kill the medic or innocent man they did kill.
I suspect they were either trying to kill the shot militant or another gunman nearby.