Idk why anyone trusted TikTok.
From day 1 it was fishy and the owners being from China and working with Government should have raised way more red flags than it did apparently.
Now every single kid in the US is obsessed with getting famous on TikTok and has it on their phone.
Meanwhile China doesn't even let their kids use TikTok.
Wild.
You nailed it.
If humans learned to control greed, everything else solves itself.
Capitalism versus socialism.
Democrats versus republicans, the homelessness and opioid crisis.
Personally I imagine it as some mixture of people being straight up ignorant and others just not wanting reality to crash in on their chance at "fame".
If the Logan Paul forest fiasco has taught me anything its that people on modern social media are willing to go/engage to any level of stupidity and then die on a hill defending it to have 5 minutes of fame.
There is a serious, and in my opinion overlooked anti-intellectual culture thats been getting worse and worse over the decades.
However its pretty much reached its critical point now where you can try and explain it and they just go "whoa" and go back to their phones.
These people are running on auto pilot and have no care or understanding about the world around them.
Everything in the US functions on a scale between a 30 second sound byte and a 4 year election cycle.
The absolute rejection for anyone to pay attention to history is very concerning.
Everybody is just winging it, but they don't even realize it.
And it extends to fiscal policy.
The entire world is about to experience a hard cognitive dissonance awakening as they realIze that we have let the blind lead the blind for far too long.
Chinas economic attempt at taking over the dollar should not have taken USGOV by surprise.
But it most certainly has.
My mind was blown when I saw a complete change in my nephew in the last year.
He's 10, and has insecurities of a very insecure teenaged boy.
He is obsessed with his looks and over compensates every action and word.
When I've talked with other parents with children around the same age, its the same thing.
This is absolutely a new thing for that age group.
This has never been a thing before.
I'm in my 30s and I'm starting to wonder if it started with my generation.
The amount of people my age who still try and steer conversations into about how much sleep they don't get every night is fucking weird.
Its part of our small talk.
Its like we are trained to signal how bad we have it, because you don't wanna come off as priviledged or something.
Its absurd, apparently everyone has been an insomniac their entire lives.
Ignoring working wage, human rights, and the obvious war potential, all for a couple more cents in profit per disposable electronic device.
The CEO of intel admitted at the WEF conference a few days ago that in the quest for a few Pennies they centralized all microprocessor production in Southeast Asia and it would take decades to fix the single point of failure.
Its perfect, design it to be addicting, which is a mental disorder in itself, this causes many other problems which will actually create real mental illnesses.
And then you have a culture of basically bragging about how fucked up you are.
Never ending cycle.