In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Reminder that 2A was expressly drafted to prevent the federal government from disarming the states at a time when the founders, fresh from defeating a tyrant, were fearful that unarmed states would be prone to invasion by neighboring nations or an authoritarian federal government.
That's why the "well regulated militia" language is there.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The authority over who could own a weapon, what types of weapons, and for what purpose, was always intended to be left to each state to decide within its own borders.
This notion is clear from the nation's laws up through the 20th century.
When throughout US history jurisdictions banned certain firearms within their state and city limits, prescribed loyalty oaths as a prerequisite to possessing firearms, or banned the public carrying and display of firearms not connected with militia service, nobody argued that such laws were unconstitutional, because it was well understood and accepted that states had the authority under 2A to set their own firearms laws and regulations.
The reason this all changed in the early part of the 21st century is not because constitutional scholars suddenly had an epiphany and realized that they had been wrongly interpreting 2A this whole time.
It changed because the GOP, with the help of the Federalist Society, installed a wholly corrupt conservative supreme court majority that actively did the gun lobby's bidding by expanding 2A to include a right of firearm possession for individual self defense.
By expanding 2A in contradiction to 200 years of precedent, the corrupt court made it nearly impossible to set firearm restrictions at the state level.
This allowed the gun lobby to sell more guns in more states, and then pump those increased profits into the pockets of the GOP and the Federalist Society, which in turn used those funds to install more gun lobby-friendly politicians and judges.
And around and around we've gone since the travesties of constitutional jurisprudence that were Heller and McDonald.
TL;DR: The GOP and FedSoc invented a right to possess firearms for individual self defense under 2A and this American hellscape we're trapped in today is a direct result of their craven pursuit of power and profit.
"The Constitution of most of our states (and of the United States) assert that all power is inherent in the people; that they may exercise it by themselves; that it is their right and duty to be at all times armed."
- Thomas Jefferson, letter to John Cartwright, 5 June 1824.
"The Constitution shall never be construed to prevent the people of the United States who are peaceable citizens from keeping their own arms."
- Samuel Adams, Massachusetts Ratifying Convention, 1788.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
"No free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms."
- Thomas Jefferson, Virginia Constitution, Draft 1, 1776.
"Guard with jealous attention the public liberty.
Suspect everyone who approaches that jewel.
Unfortunately, nothing will preserve it but downright force.
Whenever you give up that force, you are ruined....
The great object is that every man be armed.
Everyone who is able might have a gun."
- Patrick Henry, Speech to the Virginia Ratifying Convention, June 5, 1778.
“A militia when properly formed are in fact the people themselves…and include, according to the past and general usuage of the states, all men capable of bearing arms… "To preserve liberty, it is essential that the whole body of the people always possess arms, and be taught alike, especially when young, how to use them."
- Richard Henry Lee, Federal Farmer No.
18, January 25, 1788.
"I ask who are the militia?
They consist now of the whole people, except a few public officers."
- George Mason, Address to the Virginia Ratifying Convention, June 4, 1788.
And all of those individuals quoted above lived in jurisdictions that enjoyed broad constitutional authority to regulate firearms within their borders.
Speeches are pretty, but they are not code.
And within the same era that Jefferson wrote that "No free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms", and Patrick Henry proclaimed that "Everyone who is able might have a gun", Virginia and several other jurisdictions were passing laws forbidding the public carrying of firearms.