the proposal should be 1) get rid of Putin.. 2) get rid of the russians from all of ukraine, 3) sell replacement weapons to both sides to make more money..
In terms of international law and "mutual agreement" the conflict between the R.O.C.
(taiwan) and the P.R.C.
is considered a continuation of the civil war with both claiming to be "China".
I'm not saying this to support the idea, it's straight up some legalese bullshit.
But if China means respecting the lines drawn on maps at the U.N. then they would be applying the same idea that labels the areas currently under control of the R.O.C.
as being a part of the P.R.C.
to the regions of Ukraine that Russia is currently trying to conquer.
Essentially saying "hey no one has a right to change the lines on this map" which for obvious reasons benefits the P.R.C.
and also Ukraine.
It's also a whole bunch of bullshit, the U.N. is a sham and Ukraine has rights to retain its territory that go beyond international law.
Also to clarify my position when I say "mutual agreement".
In terms of on paper positions the One China Policy was something created by the R.O.C.
when it was still a dictatorship under the KMT and when the R.O.C.
stopped being a dictatorship in the 90s the new constitution crafted by the KMT continued to claim that despite only controlling the island of Taiwan and many smaller islands the R.O.C.
still claims ownership of the whole of China.
The KMT are still a major part of the "pan-blue coalition" which operate as the minority party of the R.O.C.
and continue to claim that the R.O.C.
are the rightful rulers of all of China.
However the "pan-green-coalition" which operates as the majority party within the R.O.C.
instead wants independence.
However this is where things get tricky.
The pan-green coalition still can't remove the one china policy from their constitution because doing so would be essentially formally declaring independence and seeking recognition as an independent country something that would almost surely provoke war between them and the mainland.
I don't know if there are any like metaphors I could make involving U.S. politics to explain this to my fellow Americans but basically by "mutual agreement" I mean the former rulers of Taiwan and now minority leaders of Taiwan made an agreement with China that only one of them was China and now China is holding a gun to the head of the now majority party of Taiwan trying to make sure they don't start trying to drop that agreement.
The same with Russia, had the Botox Dwarf developed an equalitarian sustainable socio-economic system in Russia (and the fucker had it at easy mode) Kyiv would be begging to associate itself with them.
But, no old school fascism and socialism it is, because all they know is boot-on-the-necks politics.
Well, it's time for 1900's ideologies to finally die.
If China continued to play nice with Hong Kong (aka following the damn deal), Taiwan couldve considered a "one country-two systems" deal too.
But they cant help themselves to be a dictatorship and now blames the US that taiwanese people doesnt want to join them.