EDIT: Ok Folks.
This was super fun.
But I have to walk the beast that is my dog Brady.
Feel free to reach out directly with any other questions.
And please, subscribe to wherever you find them.
We host Democrats and Republicans and would love to get your feedback on the show, guest and topic suggestions You can email us at and we will respond if possible.
I am Justin Higgins, currently a Democrat and political .
When I was a Republican, I worked in GOP politics as a former congressional policy staffer for a House Freedom Caucus Member during the overthrow of Speaker John Boehner, and a former 2016 opposition researcher for the Republican National Committee on the Presidential Election.
I saw the rise of Trump firsthand.
I then switched parties in 2017 to become a Democrat Political Appointee for the Governor of Puerto Rico and managed a $90 billion funding request to Congress for rebuilding the island of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria.
I have experience in policy, campaigning, and influencing the media.
Inner workings of the Republican National Committee during the 2016 Trump campaign – from day-to-day – to Wikileaks including the Podesta emails, etc.
How the media is manipulated by campaigns House GOP and how/why the Marjorie Taylor Greene’s and Matt Gaetz’ of the GOP will control McCarthy.
Anything you want to know about backroom deals for legislation in Congress, how policy actually gets made, or whatever else you are interested in!
Please check out my if you want to hear from US and Foreign political/media leaders in a substantive way that goes beyond your typical partisan podcast.
Its available wherever you listen to your shows.
Email us if you have guest and topic suggestions or want to tell us how wrong we are.
Do they actually believe in him?
Are they just doing damage control and playing the game so they can prevent even crazier people from replacing them?
Or are they just after their own power and career advancement at the cost of democracy?
Where do they hope to be through all this?
It’s a combination of a few things, the overriding points being 1.
Siege mentality, 2.
Career advancement 3.
Some believe him on some stuff and don’t care about the stuff he is lying about.
1.So the extreme right-wing of the GOP has a persecution complex, and like their base voters, they view Trump as a fighter who will push back on all the “left-wing lies”.
They overlook the bullshit because he’s their fighter.
The vile things he says about his opponents?
They love that.
He is finally the one that is going to bring the pain to the liberals.
That’s how he takes advantage of this siege mentality.
2.
Career advancement is pretty self-explanatory.
Most politicians believe they are destined for higher office or advancement, and they see this as an opportunity.
And for many, Mike Pompeo I am looking at you, this has worked out.
3.
Some believe a lot of what Trump is selling.
I am not a psychologist.
But when you start rationalizing stuff and remain in a thought bubble of like-minded people pushing you into more extreme ideas, it would stand to reason that you slowly begin believing these ideas.
Do people inside the political machine laugh at how gullible the average American voter is, or does it make them sad?
Does anyone anticipate or dread an awakening?
However, I think that there are a number of left-wing commentators that don't know what they are talking about but get large audience cos they rage bait and say ignorant things people want to say..
I've hosted a few on the podcast.
To answer your question though....
Most politicians are sad at how well rage bait plays on both sides of the aisle.
The average American voter works more than 40 hours a week, has responsibilities outside of work and their time off, and has hobbies they enjoy outside of politics.
Generally speaking, I believe that if a set of choices is made clear to the voters, they will be smart enough to pick the right choice.
Its a principle from my favorite philosopher Montesquieu -- although he was talking about "the people" in general.
As someone who "attempts" to understand opposing viewpoints, I tend to discard the most extreme on either spectrum, but I think we can all agree that one ideology has made it their platform to simply deceive their voter base.
And as I am typing this, I question if it really is deception, if they're simply openly stating what their base quietly thinks but is too cowardly to admit to people around them, because even in their own mind, it's a shameful stance toward community and fellow citizens?
The fact that the average American man can name the starting quarterback of the local NFL team but not their member of Congress is a choice.
I do think we see what a productive GOP can look like on policy --- albeit these were Democrat initiatives.
But there was Bipartisan support for an infrastructure bill.
There was bipartisan support for the CHIPS Act, and generally speaking, China is an issue where there is a productive working relationship between Dems and the GOP.
They need to get destroyed so that there is no allusion that the Trump hatred that some of them thrive on is a winning strategy.
They need to hit rock bottom, simply put.
But how do you fix it?
Compromise isn't working when one side's compromise is simply "my way or the highway".
I think the question is what are the GOP’s values - besides lower taxes for the wealthy - at this point?
What do they actually believe vs. what they say to get elected?
But I think Nina Turner is pretty damn awful.
I think there are a lot of folks pushing bullshit narratives on the left I could name.
Ok, so the fringe is different.
As they believe in a lot of crazy stuff.
And this is an overgeneralization.
But these are the issues that I think most of GOP Members agree with.
Now things like immigration really do crosscut the party.
Yes, all agree with a strong border.
But behind closed doors, some really do believe in reducing legal immigration others dont.
There is a significant number of Republicans that would support a pathway to citizenship in tandem with strenhening border security, largely because this helps increase the workforce.
But this likely isn't politically viable anytime soon.
More energy production?
- there’s more energy produced now than ever before.
But you won’t know that the way the GOP talks.
I actually think there are a lot of GREAT Democrat messaging strategists.
I respect Lis Smith alot, though I disagree with her on some stuff.
I think she is bad for Democrats in close elections.
I also think she has evolved to be more focused on actually legislating, so I respect that.
But my view of DeSantis is an extremely negative one.
And I totally and fully subscribe to the theory that the GOP must hit rock bottom before it can be resolved.
Massive electoral losses in 2024.
And continued losses after that election if they still run on the Trump policy/campaign messaging and culture war bullshit.
One big one is the congressional payscale and brain drain on Capitol Hill.
I'd argue its bigger than PAC donations.
I don't think there is a quick fix.
I think that transparency in legislation makes it harder for legislation to pass.
I think that decreasing transparency would be a bad thing because it would result in more throw-away lines in legislation that receive less public scrutiny.
I think that we are being overly broad here as the GOP isn't just one faction.
But I think I know where you are going.
Feel free to ask me to clarify.
There are major disagreements on when we can start tracking the current iteration of the GOP right-wing.
I believe that to be 2008 financial crisis and the Koch Brothers setting up their Tea Party grassroots network.
That's where I think the modern day cutoff should begin.
So I had always been socially liberal, but more fiscally moderate.
And throughout the 2016 campaign, there was a ton of stuff that was extremely troubling.
If I were to pinpoint one area that pushed me over the edge, and into deep introspection, it would be the Hollywood Access Tape.
He was on tape bragging about sexual assault.
What really made it sink in was the fact that the RNC floor I was working on had 30ish TV playing MSNBC, and CNN all day.
And the Clinton campaign would play that Hollywood Access tape in ads continuously – it felt like every 30 seconds.
So I had to confront that I was working 80-100 hours a week to elect Trump and the GOP with facing this absolutely disgusting fact many times a day.
It was the straw that broke the camel's back, so to speak.\.
Its politics are wrapped up in self-identity.
Easier to think I don't know what I am talking about than to look at yourself in the mirror and ask if your belief system needs changing.
\Obviously, the social justice issues at the time had sparked the beginning of this introspection, and the Wikileaks and Russian involvement in 2016 added to my concerns.
My thesis is that its a combination of a feedback loop that you mention from the media, and their grassroots activists, the impact of money in politics (both koch brothers style and MTG small donors), and a lot of the base voters and extreme right-wing politicians having a siege mentality.
Two podcast episodes we discuss this in I point you to.
One with , and one with .
Podcast is center left because of the perspective I bring, the guests we host and the topics we cover.
I am very socially liberal.
The things I describe are largely the things I think people would be interested in hearing in a reddit ama.
When I was working in GOP politics during and briefly after the 2016 election, my own family didn't believe the negative things I would say about Trump and the GOP.
I thought that I could impact the GOP from the inside out and held economic views on trade, the military and America's standing in the world that were similar to the establishment GOP in 2014.
They are in a very difficult position of their own making and I only see a resounding defeat being able to shift their approach to politics moving forward.