Right.
That's a verrrrrry weird position to take now of all times.
Russia's economy is in shambles, has a terminal demography, refused to honor its version of article 5 with Armenia, and apparently can't even supply its own soldiers with winter uniforms but yeah I'm sure they'll be great partners.
1) Russia doesn't have that kind of influence in Serbia.
Serbia is somewhere in the middle between EU and let's call them "eastern powers" ( Russia and China ).
Now EU has been applying a little pressure onto Serbia to sanction Russia over Ukraine which Serbia is reluctant to do as it still depends on Russia for a couple things, namely the UNSC veto and gas, but Russia is in no position to make any demands as that would push Serbia further to the EU side, so they have been threading carefully there.
A bit wrong here with step 1 in your chain of events, it wasn't Serbs entering Kosovo that needed temporary license plates issued by Kosovo, it was ethnic Serbians living in Kosovo using plates issued by Serbia.
They were being asked to use Kosovo plates.
1.
Kosovo passes the license plate law requiring holders of Serbian license plates to obtain temporary Kosovo plates when entering Kosovo.
Basically Serbia refuses to recognize Kosovo's independence, so it makes license plates for people in that territory who want to register their vehicle, which is what ethnic Serbians are doing.
All that Kosovo is asking is that if they live in Kosovo and own a vehicle with license plates that they should have those plates issued by the Kosovo government.
It would be like if my American sister-in-law bought her vehicle in Canada and then got a license plate made by America claiming that Canada was its territory.
It's nonsense, and very stupid for Serbia and those Serbians living in Kosovo.
If they want to have Serbian plates and live in Serbia they can move to Serbia.
Kosovo is willing to let them live and enjoy themselves in their country, but they have to follow the nations rules just like anyone else.
I mean... the position of those Serbians living in Kosovo is that they ARE in Serbia.
Serbia doesn't recognize Kosovo as independent and most of the Serbs living in Kosovo didn't move there AFTER 1999.
They were there before.
As you point out, they didn't ENTER Kosovo.
They were always there.
5.
Kosovo government sends "election" officials to the north to be able to fill the vacant positions.
Kosovo is not universally recognized as an independent nation in the world.
It's pretty mixed, and not just with problematic countries like Russia.
It's about 50/50 at the UN.
8.
Serbia in a cheap worthless move asks NATO to deploy up to a 1000 troops into the area per a prior agreement.
NATO will absolutely reject the request.
You can obviously disagree with the position.
And it would be totally fair to say that the Serbs involved are inflaming a sensitive situation and escalating the ethnic tensions.
But to say the situation is resolved and the Serbs living there should just accept they're Kosovar and not Serbian, is a bit disingenuous.
2) I will attempt to detail the chain of events that caused this situation, I'll start at an arbitrary point, but keep in mind there's probably been decades of events prior to that.
A better analogy is if your sister-in-law bought her vehicle in Mexico during a lull in the Mexican-American war while living in California.
To her it's still ALL Mexico.
And because there's not a treaty between Mexico and the United States during this lull it's not official and up to which allies recognize which side.
Well the Serbians living in Kosovo can believe they live on the moon for all I care, but that doesn't make it real.
Part of being a country is the ability to establish and defend borders with your own government, something Serbia cannot do in that territory.
And if you want to talk about BEFORE, well Koso existed BEFORE being a part of Yugoslavia, they were there BEFORE those Serbs.
The difference is those Albanians in Kosovo never came from anywhere else, that is where they came from, those Serbians living there originally came from the north.
That may have been in the past, but their attitudes towards those Albanians also changed from what they were in the past.
If they can suddenly choose to change their relationship with ethnic Albanians so too can those Albanians.
And your Mexico example makes no difference.
She WAS living in Mexico, but those borders changed and now she NO LONGER lives in Mexico.
As such she should follow the rules of the country she is in or leave it.
Now let me ask you a question, do you think those people living there were constantly moving in and out of the country every time it changed?
Obviously there would always be a few, but most accepted the changes in their country, for better or worse and moved on trying to improve their country in either case.
That's what Serbians need to do, move on.
Ha, ok, let them do what they want then and see how NATO responds.
You say there is no rules, well then put it to the test or stop spouting bullshit.
It matters not if Serbia recognizes them or not.
I mean, if I say Serbians are people made of chocolate and therefore it's okay to eat them it doesn't make it true no matter how hard I believe it.
They have ZERO authority over the people there as decided by the international courts.
They can choose to ignore the rest of the world all they want, but unfortunately they can't ignore the bullets and bombs that will respond to their dipshittery.
Just for added context, where I live in Alberta Canada there is a pretty vocal minority that wishes to have our province secede from Canada and join the US.
Now this is a bit different because we are talking about a minority here, as are the Serbs in Kosovo (Serbians make up about 8% of Kosovo's population).
But if it were the majority and they did succeed in leaving Canada, regardless of Canada's recognition I would not be for it.
But if we're a similar case to what happened in Kosovo and there was no going back I already know I would just up and move back to Canada, to another province.
I wouldn't pretend I'm still living in Canada when it's clearly not.
You are in favor of the genocide, the people of Kosovo were not doing anything wrong but living their lives.
Then they decided to leave and pleaded to the international community for help, which they received from the UN in the form of NATO protection.
Serbians apparently thought rules don't apply to them and kept attacking the people of Kosovo, so NATO responded by attacking them in kind.
Had Serbians not fucked around they would not have found out the consequences of their actions.
LoL, what?
So Yugoslavian Serbs, who let's remember were actually found to be in the act of killing ethnic Albanians with the government's approval and knowledge, are in the right?
Seems your idea of them "not wanting to exert authority over others" is categorically false, with plenty of evidence to back it up.
Also if you want to talk about ring disingenuous then you can easily look up the ACTUAL figure for UN recognition which is 52%, and was actually even greater in several years, up to 119 states recognized it at one point, although there has also been states that rescinded recognition as a sort of political statement.
But that's kind of a moot point as you can't undo such a thing after the fact.
And more to the point over half the world believes it should be its own independent country, that doesn't include the abstentions, so the people voting nay are not as close to the 50% mark as you say, it was not 50-50.
As the UN press briefing of the time puts it:
Okay, that was stupid.
I never said Albanians in the first place.
My post would make no sense that way.
So because you choose to be ignorant or are actually just really stupid, let me illustrate it in a couple of ways.
FYI this is nothing new.
This is literally ALL OF EUROPE.
Example; Saxony was its own state, then it was a part of the Holy Roman Empire, then it was its own state again, then it got cut in half and part of it was Prussia the other half part of the German Confederation, then it became all Prussia, then they became part of Germany again, then they got split between East and West Germany, the.
They became Germany again and that's how we currently know it as a province within Germany.
"A bit wrong here with step 1 in your chain of events, it wasn't Serbs entering Kosovo that needed temporary license plates issued by Kosovo, it was ethnic Serbians living in Kosovo using plates issued by Serbia.
They were being asked to use Kosovo plates.
Basically Serbia refuses to recognize Kosovo's independence, so it makes license plates for people in that territory who want to register their vehicle, which is what ethnic Serbians are doing.
All that Kosovo is asking is that if they live in Kosovo and own a vehicle with license plates that they should have those plates issued by the Kosovo government.
The draft resolution on the request for an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on whether the unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo is in accordance with international law (document A/63/L.2) was adopted by a recorded vote of 77 in favour to 6 against, with 74 abstentions, as follows:
Absent: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, Cape Verde, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Iraq, Kiribati, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libya, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Seychelles, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Venezuela.