There was a once in 200 year major earthquake that killed tens of thousands of people.
How many people died from the nuclear disaster compared to those who died from dam disasters caused by the earthquake?
Should we decommission all the dams in Japan as they are objectively more dangerous?
Did I say anything about deaths specifically?
Climate change will result in more deaths than any earthquake or radiation event, but if your investments are above a certain level of risk they are poor investments.
As I do not know this level of risk, my comment took the form of a question... as opposed to your questions which are rhetorical and somewhat pointless.
Yes, my comment was rhetorical.
And you are correct, it was not directly in response to any claim you made about deaths.
You raised the question of whether it was a good idea to build nuclear power plants in a country that is basically a giant fault line.
My argument is that even if Japan had double the number of earthquakes, it would still be a good idea to go nuclear.
Because after a once-in-a-lifetime giant disaster, a poorly maintained nuclear power plant built in the 1960s was hit by a giant tsunami.
It resulted in less deaths than a dam collapse that washed away entire families to their deaths.
Everybody loves hydro (me too), but this just shows how irrational the fear of nuclear power is.
Hell, even if there was one guaranteed Fukushima-scale disaster every single year, I would personally still take nuclear power over burning fossil fuels.
Yeah, Fukushima was a reality check.
There are more and better safety measures that can be added, but those suggesting nuclear power is 100% safe in Japan seems incorrect and unrealistic.
Although, there are many places that can and should use more nuclear power.
For all the press Fukashima got, the damage to life was pretty small.
In terms of years of life lost, the response was far more deadly.
Japan shut down all its nuclear plants.
The cost of power went up, and so people turned down their heat, which led to an increase in heart attacks in the elderly.
It's definitely a marketing problem in Japan.
As they are the only country to have ever been attacked with nuclear weapons, it's almost impossible to remove the connection.
I'm not sure if you were here in Japan in 2011, but all over the news, they were referring to people directly exposed to the Fukushima radiation as "Hibakusha".
Usually writing it as "被ばく者", but with the middle character actually meaning "曝".
I was mainly thinking about "Hibakusha".
Whichever characters you use to write it.
It's a very powerful word and hearing that after Fukushima brought back some painful memories for many Japanese people.
Just Google ”福島第一原子力発電所 被ばく者” and you will get literally dozens and dozens of articles calling them Hibakusha.
Don't think they omitted it because of any bias.
In newspapers, they used 被ばく because "曝" is not a Joyo kanji and they are not allowed to have it printed in newspapers.
Whatever the reason, saying "Hibakusha" reminded a lot of Japanese people of a very painful time in their history.