In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Herschel Walker is the poster child for hypocrisy on that issue, despises abortions on one hand, forces his mistresses to have abortions on the other hand.
The duality would be funny if it wasn’t so evil.
My grandmother was one of the most hateful racist person I have ever met.
She was a evangelical Christian and believed she could act that way because she would just pray it away.
Just pray and all is forgiven.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Are you saying she was self-aware enough that she knew she was a hateful racist person and yet she still actively pursued to be that?
Jesus fuck, im sorry you had to deal with that in your family.
She recently passed.
No one in the family cared much.
The last thing she said to me was when I had my dog cuddled up on me and as I pet her she turns to me and says" well no one else loves you but that dog sure does".
For real though, when a conservative is truly caught with a gay prostitute or something, they can easily claim they were led astray by sin, sometimes that will even fool their wives….
It’s spiritual hypocrisy as well, as they condemn LGBTQ+ people even if we’re in a committed marriage, and they use their “perfectly biblical” marriages as the correct version of a family.
That’s true, all this proves is that republicans are more likely to make an account on a cheating website, it would be hard not to interpret that as meaning they cheat more.
There’s really no other way to measure cheating as most cheaters don’t admit to cheating.
The majority of married straight guys I’ve talked to on grindr (I ghost them when they say they’re married) are conservative Christians.
Part of it is that most Dems don’t feel obligated to stay in an unhappy relationship due to religious dogma.
One would thing god frowns on lying and infidelity more than honesty and divorce.
It is absolutely a post about politics you just have to put this into perspective.
As a proudly and openly gay man I’m constantly told that I’m the antithesis of family values by conservatives.
Conservatives claim to be the authority on family values but they are entirely a party of hypocrites and need to stop using “the family” as an excuse for hate when they’re willing to risk destroying their own family and have extramarital affairs.
This is an important statement on the invalidity of their so called “concern” for family values which is their excuse not just for their hate towards the LGBTQ+ community but also liberals as a whole because they tend to support us, meaning they don’t care about family.