In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I don't disagree that the asylum process is broken, but the laws date back to the end of WWII, later updated in the 1960s.
And they are tied to an international protocol on refugees and asylum seekers.
It's not Joe Biden's policy.
Trump was only able to get around the laws by using COVID as a temporary emergency fix.
What is really needed is a complete reworking of the system.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Maybe we should change the password.
I think everyone caught on the the fact that all you have to do is call yourself an “asylum seeker” and for some reason our laws just have to let you in.
I personally think the US should be able to stop accepting asylum seekers from nations that don't an ongoing war, ethic cleansing or major human rights violations (Think the Uyghurs in China).
And that they should be able to pre-identify just who qualifies if anyone.
I was lukewarm on him when he was first elected, but I'd 100% vote for him for President now.
We have a lot of problems in CA because we're such a big state and are suffering from the knock-on effects of bad policy in the past (particularly on housing), but he's been making great progress in trying to fix them.
Sure - he put a moratorium on the death penalty, he halted the High Speed Rail project because it had ballooned into a clusterfuck (we'll see if it can ever be salvaged, but it's a mess, so it's hard to be optimistic), he signed bills to eliminate single family zoning and allow residential buildings in commercial zones, another that will set up a new court process for seriously mentally ill homeless people.
California is going to be making our own insulin, the wildfire mitigation efforts have started paying off, he signed another bill so former inmates who participate in our prison firefighting program are finally eligible for some jobs after release, there's more but that's some of it off the top of my head!