Step 4: deny having any control over formerly employed religious hardliners while they continue to murder at will.
"They are not our employees anymore.
They are acting on their own".
Step 5: use your military to stop the violence.
Tell the world you are trying to stop the "violent hardliners" while you really go after those who have been protesting.
They wouldn't have done this if they had any choice, they're going to find a way to save face and then give the protesters what they want and ensure everyone shuts up.
They're not going to secretly come after the protesters because if they've done this, it's because they were seriously afraid of being toppled, which means there are too many to punish.
Once people who live under theocratic authoritarian governments get what they want they will keep asking for more and more and more.
This is why the leaders hardly ever bend or break.
Because as soon as you overturn one policy it opens the flood gates.
If you want to ignore history and give Iran the benefit of the doubt feel free.
But the rest of us are still seeing red flags and watching the situation expecting violence.
I'm not giving Iran the benefit of the doubt.
I'm telling you they've fucking lost this one and they know it.
They didn't hold back the violence on this, they sent in their goons.
What's their other choice?
They've thrown everything at this they have and the protests are just getting worse.
So the choice is to find a way that they can save face and hope they can keep a lid on it or lose now.
It's a common tactic many countries use.
Turn the people against each other so that they don't turn against you.
We are seeing this play out in the United States right now.
Turning the population against itself so that they don't realize that the government is the true problem.
Governments, even theocratic authoritarian ones, govern because most people in their countries acknowledge, even if grudgingly, their authority to do so.
The Iranian people did not acknowledge their government's authority on this, and all their thugs didn't change it.
Allowing the country to descend into sectarian violence in which the older generation of hardline religious zealots wage personal war on the progressive and less religious youth.
Now you are denying the existence of extremist religious hardliners.
So we can be done with this conversation.
When the people are unified they get organized and try to address problems.
If you know that you are the problem then....
Eventually they're going to want to address you.
By keeping the people at each other's throats you can stay in power.
It's a tried and true method that has worked for a couple millennia now.
Every religion has its extremist hardliners who are willing to kill whoever they are told to kill in the name of their faith.
These zealots don't exist.
The whole reason this happened is because they've not been consistently enforcing this law.
No one actually cared and the morality police were just using it to get punish people.
Every religion has people able to justify doing evil shit in the name of their God and to punish sinners.
But they can't kill everyone.
This wasn't some small majority.
No.
I'm telling you that there is no significant group of Iranians who give a shit about the headscarf law.
Because even the morality police didn't actually give a shit about the head scarf law and there's not going to be anyone more hard line than them.
That's about 10 million Iranians who side with those religious hardliners.
Potential extremists.
The weaker they become the more violent they will become.
This is also historical fact.
When a religious group that has been in power begins to lose power violence happens.
Body's pile up.
Again we can look to the United States and the dwindling power of the Church.
The weaker they become and the smaller their support base becomes the more they become hardliners and violent.
These are historical truths that we are watching play out in real time.
Pay attention because you'll want to remember how it actually went and not how documentaries try to portray it 30 or 40 years from now.
Because it is internal iranian action, also because this means jack shit.
They are not abolishing laws or the norms by which moral police operated, they only formally disbanding moral police.
In other words, the job of moral police will simply be given to police, since the laws that they were enforcing are still in place.
It would be worth international coverage, IF they also repelled shia driven laws, but that is a true reform, what mullas want is a temporary placement of protest, not reforms.
„Cruelty, inhumanity, barbarisen, all are bad words now directly connected to our proud people.
Thats why we decided to change, to break up what was before and rise from the ashes of the past By Allah, we are proud to present to you > MoralityPolice+ now with more whipping and beheading Death to America“ !<.