In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
>A panel of three appeals court judges appeared extremely skeptical Tuesday that the federal government violated former president Donald Trump’s rights when it searched Mar-a-Lago in August.
“But that argument didn’t seem to win over the judges, who repeatedly said Trump’s team has not proven that he needs these items returned to him and that the search was an overreach.
Chief Judge William H. Pryor Jr said he was concerned about the precedent the case could create by allowing the target of a search warrant to go into a court and request a special master that could interfere with an executive branch investigation before an indictment is ever issued.
Pryor also seemed to criticize Trump’s team for asking for a special master without proving that the initial search was illegal.
Still can’t believe this clown show of lawyers tRump is using isn’t indicted or in jail themselves.
I look forward to their indictments and jail time.
Seditious trash.
I'm sorry and I don't mean to offend, but that is seriously the dumbest theory going in this story.
I absolutely believe Trump would do whatever he felt necessary to hide or destroy any documents he wanted to be rid of, but putting them in his dead ex-wife's casket is just stupid.
Burn them, flush them, shred them, eat them.
Whatever.
Any of those make more sense.
Agreed.
It occurred to me as I was typing my comment that with Trump, the stupidity of an idea and the likelihood of him doing it are highly correlated.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.