Just drown them in piles of weapons and get this over with,so pointless to drag it out,either the west wants ukraine to win or not,either we think putin will nuke or not,its been almost a year this dribble of stuff makes no sense.
It can all end when Russia decides to stop sending his citizens to get turned into pink mist trying to invade a country that very clearly does not want them there.
Or until Ukraine concedes the Donbas, but I think they’re going to keep sending men to die there and continue to slaughter each other in this pointless and stagnant war fuelled by effectively infinite money from Ukraine’s allies.
The Ukrainians will retake Donbas in due time, either now or later.
It belongs to them.
So either this will turn into an ongoing, protracted conflict, or an arrangement satisfactory to all can be agreed to, and then we can get back to peace.
That arrangement, by the way is: Ukraine gets all of Ukraine, including Crimea, plus can form whatever security pact they want with any other party for their defence.
And Russia can have Russia.
Or what's left of it.
1.
If the MIC is making money, more power to them.
It's not illegal to make money.
I find it ironic that you guys keep telling us that we are going to run out of weapons before the Russians, that Ukraine is sending us broke and on and on and in the next breath, that it's all a scheme to make some cash.
Which is it?
Can you not even write down your propaganda points beforehand so you can choose the ones that aren't blatantly contradictory?Oh - and if Raytheon making some money keeps you up at night, tell Putin to get out of Ukraine.
No more weapons being made for Ukraine, problem solved.
I feel like you and Putin should have sat down and read a pamphlet on how international relations work and maybe you could have avoided this screw up.
The western military industrial complex is all making money off of this, They don’t want peace Boris Johnson going to Zelenski telling him not to make a peace deal was proof of it, if more countries throw themselves into this pointless clusterfuck it’s going to be world war 3 and y’all are going to be cheering as millions die over a strip of Russian speaking land on the opposite side of the planet, this is Ukraines fight, not NATOs, Not the UN’s, not the west’s and certainly not mine.