In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The relatively small number of younger people that managed to get through Florida schools with some semblance of an education and sanity, are more than made up for by the influx of wealthy White Conservative Retirees that overwhelm the voting rolls and probably vote in two states.
Reality is that Florida is taking learning back to the time of segregation and DS is touting it as a way of protecting kids from divisive concepts, but what he is really doing is teaching kids that white grievance is the culture they should embrace and that anything that threatens that must be stopped at all costs.
His banning books and restricting education is pandering for votes from a fearful electorate that thinks that they are being replaced and discriminated against by an evolving multicultural America is obscene and disgusting.
Culture wars are not a reason to dumb down education- we are already way behind other countries in how effective and educated our kids are.
Diversity and inclusion are not woke concepts,they are human concepts.
Education is the biggest gift we can give children, and not telling all of it, and only telling the parts you like or agree with, does no one any favors.
We don't live in the 1950s, where black people drank from their own water fountains and couldn't learn with white kids because they were seen as inferior.
Every person regardless of their cultural beliefs deserves to be heard and celebrated.
It's sad and depressing that the GOP seems to think that keeping the populous uneducated and unaware of cultural marginalization and issues that face minorities in today's world will make America better and more able to compete on the world stage with other countries that are light years ahead of us already.