I wish, more trains, more public transit rails, less cars, more nuclear power plants.
Build walkable towns and cities.
I don’t think American people are ready for this tho.
People may be begrudging at first but I figure they’d get used to it fairly quick as long as things are set up efficiently.
The problem really is the fact that big oil, and massive automotive companies have plenty of say in the world and would likely be the biggest stink regarding this kind of change.
That’s be nice lol, though I already use metric a lot since I have a lot of international friends and my state offers free healthcare with full coverage for those who can’t afford it so I’m already kinda live that.
Uh, the big problem is the "American dream" combined with population growth.
So no I don't think our culture would "get used to it" quickly or otherwise.
Blame the companies if u want but it's our culture that's out of touch with reality.
Toxic consumer babies.
Go to suburbia and tell them they can't have their single family house and see what kinda reaction u get.
I'd bet on shot.
It's just like an electric weed wacker versus a gas weed wacker.
As long as the electric weed wacker is powerful enough to do the job it's the far superior option because it's way easier to own and operate.
Yeah, does rural America have traffic jam and serious carbon emission?
Can’t we look into how to effectively get their products out of the region?
Update the railway system to get their products shipped out faster?
Get the parts they need to repair the farm equipment?
It’s not one solution fix all, it’s a national infrastructure system.
I am just a little depressed, we are the richest country in the world with smart people and talented people internationally trying to migrate here.
How did we get here….
Yeah, I am not trying to take your car away.
It’s rural area, you actually need a car to move around and public transit is not feasible for low population density.
But would you be interested in train service to nearby cities for entertainment and college education?
The simple reality is that once you have slightly better energy storage the green options are all significantly cheaper to own and operate and that is pretty much the end of the game for anything close to the volume of fossil fuel use we have today.
That's what's really happening versus utopian minimalist dreams that are basically just another form of science denial.
Things are cool, but they're not an effective enough solution to get you down to the emission standards you need in a big spread out country like America.
It makes more sense to go with economics of scale where you can make things in factories and ship them all over the world not super custom built train and train stations all over the place that require endless zoning and environmental impact b.
It would just take a ridiculous amount of time and then still not serve a s ton of people.
I'd rather not ask ppl to entirely change their lifestyles when it's probably not necessarily.
We will run CO2 along side emission reduction and energy storage will zoom right by nuclear in usefulness.
Most of the world can't go nuclear, especially all at once and that still locks most countries into energy dependence which is unnecessary.
EVS for a far better solution and somewhere about the end of the decade we're going to have batteries that don't require rare minerals so much.
Solid state and suitable grid energy storage should be ready by the end of the decade and will make nuclear options look like they are standing still resulting in them being dead end investments compared to real renewable and energy storage.
Newer batteries won't have much rare mineral limits either.
Once you realize there's no way out of this that doesn't include CO2 sequestration you don't have to try to load everything up on emissions reduction and that's what a lot of the climate models say nowadays anyway.
The big bottleneck is still not enough funding for next level energy storage and after that getting the costs down on CO2 sequestration, but there is no choice because emissions reduction and just leaving in the pollution up there to keep warning AND acidity the oceans to max isn't a real solution given how far behind emission goal we are and how unrealistic converting the world to utopian level minimalism really is.
Those kind of ideas sound good on paper when you limit yourself to emissions and don't mind acidifying the ocean, but it makes a lot more sense to commit to removing the pollution vs just stop shitting in the sky and transfer the chemical trash from one biosphere to another as if that's not the same kind of thinking that got us here.
It's like we're going from "the sky is so big how could we ever have an impact on it" to "the oceans are so big how could we ever have an impact on them" while also noting that the oceans are steadily acidifying.
Bigger problem is that rich people are usually very out of touch with what most of the world experiences.
Regardless of age if all our politicians are people with born or inherited wealth they’ll always be out of touch with real world problems since they’re used to buying their problems out.
Evie's will soon be significantly cheaper to own and operate and you'll see fleets of vehicles being converted over since those are the people that follow cost of ownership the best.
At that point it's just normal human behavior where people want the cheapest new thing that has the most features.