There are always some troublemakers in this march, like everywhere else, can't deny it.
Remember that this event has 100-150k participants every year.
But to say it's all far-right or fascists is simply... Wrong.
The majority are just ordinary people.
I took part in it too a few times (not in this year).
I'm not and never has been a PiS supporter, and I definitely am not and never has been a fascist.
You need to know that event is very polarizing in Poland, it is a ground for political feud for years now (this march did not start in 2015 as the article would have you believe).
Don't fall into the lies of both left and right leaning media.
The left will say like here it's full of nazis and the far right is on the rise etc.
The right will say it's all ordinary people, families with little kids, no one ever gets hurt there, no one ever says anything inappropriate but even if that happens it's probably some provocation etc.
What I try to get across here is the fact that usually the reality is much more complex than a one page article on 'Reuters' or any other media for that matter.
The truth is in the middle.
There is always a group of idiots, real right wing extreme and they always waltz in the very front of this march, organizators often want to cut them out of the main group so they star walking with some distance after them, but it never looks good (imo if they really wanted to cut them they would find another way, so the organization is really allowing them to go basically...).
In the main group there are always some young lads with flares and such, there are some inappropriate things being said by aforementioned hot-headed youth but it really is a minority.
Still does that mean I can't attend biggest patriotic march in my country without assumed affiliation like 90% of attendees?
Someone downvoted you without explaining something: Poles hate the Russians on a level that's hard to really understand if you haven't seen it yourself.
So no, while these guys are isolationist fascists that are generally homophobic they do not shit to do with Russia.
So, I am an American, my lineage is Polish but we pretty much have been full US for generations.
Broadly, this group is the traditional right wing white supremacist, conservative, let's-return-Poland-to-a-time-that-never-exsited type of people that glorify 1950s America.
Anti-choice, anti-gay, definitely very Catholic, and of course ever so slightly Slav-supremacy in there.
Unfortunately, I don't remotely speak Polish so I can't tell you what their rhetoric sounds like to a Pole, outside looking in they remind me of Utah Republicans.