In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Republicans have realized that their positions aren’t compelling and aren’t winning the support of the people, so now they have abandoned the idea that the support of the people is needed.
They will merely use the power of the government to protect their control of the government and to silence those who say what they don’t like.
DeSantis is literally engaging in government censorship in blatant violation of the First Amendment.
The dude is vocally floating the idea of being the source and arbiter of government forced morality.
he is trying to use morality as the beacon that puts him in the right, against the sinful evil of being "woke".
thats why he wont define what woke is.
he needs it to remain as an undefined boogieman so he can fight it everywhere he sees fit.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
>"DeSantis' lawyers were forced by the court to define 'woke.'
The lead lawyer described it as 'The belief there are systemic injustices in American society and the need to address them.
'".
the ripples of the park closing would be much further reaching.
10s of thousands of workers out of a job, one of, if not the biggest tourism draws in the country no longer bringing in people, and their money... now of course disney wont shut down the park, they will just bring the full power of their legal team in to tie up that board and give them hell.
and then disney will likely step into every political topic desantis wants to promote, just to annoy him.
desantis would likely try everything he could to retaliate, only to begin to run into a brick wall that would consume endless state resources.