A much as I am rooting for Ukraine, this seems grossly under reported.
Especially since the Russian losses are so much higher.
I really hope I am wrong about this though.
They died for their country and values in probably a10:1 kill/death ratio.
Taking out ten enemy soldiers before you die while protecting your brothers fighting by your side, is no small achievement.
Yes the Ukrainian soldiers were (and are) real people, brothers, husbands, fathers and sons.
They made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom.
Much respect for them.
It won't be forgotten.
Well admitting and mentioning are two very different things.
Also what she mentioned was retracted and clarified.
1) she doesn't have any special Intel the rest of us don't.
It was just a number she heard somewhere on the news.
2) the number was an estimation of injured + killed.
Russia is to have estimated 80,000 to 100,000 personel killed.
From what reporting I've seen (mainly BBC coverage), the Ukrainians are much better at battlefield medicine than the Russians.
They're good at retrieving wounded from the front lines, bringing them to field hospitals, and stabilizing them so that they survive.
But that doesn't mean that those soldiers can return to the fight.
If a guy gets his leg or arm blown off by artillery, field hospitals can make sure he doesn't die, but he's not getting back into the fight, like, ever.
So Ukrainian casualties (soldiers rendered incapable of service due to either death or injury) is likely much higher than the plain death toll.
I've heard at the beginning of the conflict that modern warfare historically has had a 1:3 killed/wounded ratio, so casualties are 4x deaths.
The better the medical care is, the lower the ratio becomes, so if the Ukrainians manage a 1:5 ratio of killed/wounded, then for 13K deaths, there can be 78K total casualties.
If the deaths are underreported (very likely), and we assume 15K-18K deaths, then with a 1:5 ratio, total casualties could be between 90K and 110K, which is in the range of NATO estimates.