In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The overseas mfgs are welcome to build plants in the US which will qualify for the funding.
This multiplies the economic stimulus for the US as overseas investment comes to US and builds US infrastructure.
So start building the plants now that the demand and the protection for investment and production is there.
The lack of strategic industries is something to fix, not work around by continuing to buy overseas.
Also you can't buy American when American can't sell you what they don't have.
The reason everyone is running around trying to build green tech is because of government money and incentives, which makes projects cheaper but again, you can't buy what's not available.
Either the build out happens while buying from China or the build out happens much, much slower.
For example, USA could be buying boat loads of EVs from China.
No wait list.
No recalls.
But, instead you have to wait for legacy auto to tool up.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is it exactly.
It's nice USA has started the green energy transition.
But like most projects or mangers they decided to go with unrealistic goals.
Either timetables are bad or they are trying to do too much at once or out of order.
Those Chinese cars will not pass NHTSA safety tests.
Pretending they're flawless is also laughable.
The Vietnamese produced EV that's getting introduced is more expensive than many US made EVs and had less range and fewer features.
The switch from big oil to green tech has some national security issues running around in the background.
My opinion, USA is to aggressive with China and their timetables for rainbows and unicorns.
USA should build out with China's help with the intent and plans to shore up production.
Work with China.
Balance China's weak points to strenhen USA..
Quitting cold turkey does not work for a lot of people.
The Great Supply Chain Break, never forget.
/s.
I did.
You didn’t.
This is me, again, explaining it to you.
Also low cobalt Li-Ion describes a whole lot of possible batteries.
It’s not very specific.
And it is, like I said, old tech.
What does Eruope have to say about that?
And you do realize that in order for China to export them to USA...... they kinda have to.