You tiptoe around the crazy guy with a gun, not because you care overmuch about his feelings, but because if you make a wrong move, he can give you a bad day real quick.
Honestly, it's probably a little from column A, a little from column B.
Most diplomacy is, doubly so when there's a war involved.
That's the nature of understanding time, and the fact that you not only want to stop this current threat, but do your best to minimize all future threats.
The jury is out on what will bring Russia into normalized relations with the West, if anything, and how long it'll take, but that's the ultimate goal.
Seriously, Gerhard Schroeder approved the Nord Stream project in the microsecond before the door hit his ass as he was leaving, then almost immediately became Chairman of the project.
Even today he is Putin’s poodle.
Ot seemed reasonable when you consider that Russia was supposed to be as dependent upon the west to buy gas diamonds, whatever else they sell.
What would make them turn and bite the hand of their trading partners like that.
The second you start to tiptoe you have already lost.
You tell the crazy guy to put the gun down and if he doesn't you shoot him.
You don't want him to kill others because of your inaction.
And this is why analogies always fall short.
Because you can hard stop an individual person, either via coercion or force, but you can't stop a nation state the same way, unless you're willing to commit genocide.
It's not the Russian people so much it is the head of the snake.
If Russia is pushed out of Ukraine I think they will have a new head of state.
Hopefully it isn't Putin 2.0.
Don't be fooled.
They've been living with Putin's propaganda for decades.
I don't think they're uniquely horrible people, but by and large they support what is happening, and if someone replaces Putin, they'll likely do the same exact thing because the Russian people have been led to believe it's right.
The analogy of an individual vs a country breaks down - you can end the threat from an individual by taking that individual out of play, you can't do the same to a country unless you're a genocidal maniac.
China has exactly the same ambitions as Russia does, just different immediate targets and different triggers.
They'll want "the problems" of Russia just like Russia wants "the problems" of Ukraine.
And none of it is good for the rest of us.
Perhaps you're right.
That's their choice.
But they are a sovereign nation - there's limits on what we can do to them and their population and maintain the moral high ground.
And I mean that literally - if we aren't willing to do to them what they're trying to do to Ukraine right now, then we've got to let them navigate their own path, and just put up barriers they can't cross when they try to cross the line.
Just like what we're doing with Ukraine right now.
And we have to be wary about pushing them into the arms of China.
They're pretty much already there, it's just that they're maintaining the idea of a peer relationship rather than a relationship of reliance.
If it goes to outright reliance, that's not really better for the rest of the world.
Because China will not close their borders to Russia.
So, if we want to have some influence on Russia's trajectory from here, we can't close borders either.
I understand if you disagree with that.
At minimum, you must concede the problem is not a simple one.