In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Larry Krasner has violated the Law and Order tradition of never admitting an error by aggressively working to correct the failures of the Philadelphia cops, DAs and judges.
This pisses off Police, who are part of the Republican system of Hate.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Also where da red states at, they're leading the race in terms of increased crime lol.
I live in the sticks and like guns (and common sense regulation for them!)
buuuut uh, maybe permitless open carry is kind of a bad idea?
I moved out of Philly around when he got elected - they paint him as the sole reason for the bump in crime(destabilization of society due to a massive global event like say....a fucking pandemic, tends to do that) and that he declines to prosecute violent crime.
My understanding is he has declined to prosecute some non-violent misdemeanors that were straight up clogging up the courts and costing both the city and the state more money to prosecute, while drastically curbing the potential economic output of the people who end up in jail or prison over dumb stuff.
Sounds like a cold way to put it - but these people have no empathy to begin with and do not respect it, but their plans are also stupid and harmful to the economy they worship too.
People here are just stupid assholes, and about 99 percent do not need to carry a gun.
I do get quite the "what a pathetic excuse of a man" when I see the yearly cowboy, hat, facial hair, and fire arm all together.
We are nowhere near yeehaw ville, but they just can't help but express their glass like ego and masculinity.
Agree that most people are not ready for a ccw - myself included(also a medical mj patient so I couldn't if I wanted to lol).
I don't mind it existing, but I think the process should be more rigorous, it's a big responsibility and a huge danger if you attempt to defend yourself against another person with a gun pulled without really knowing how to.
There was actually a study done in Philly by Upenn(can link if you'd like) that found that ccw holders were something like 4x more likely to get shot in cities and when they did it was often more severe than non ccw-holders.
I also think people underestimate how much gun violence(even removing suicide from the equation) is done with legal firearms - we do have a real problem with massive amounts of untraceable/illegal firearms on the street, and yes we have a massive mental health crisis - none of that negates that there is empiric evidence that making guns a liiiittle harder to get can significantly reduce gun violence(even when it's states that have guns trafficked to them from neighboring states with lax laws).
Nor is it in any way a violation of the second amendment.
just like prohibiting felons and medical card holders from ccws(kinda silly but that's the whole criminalization of weed in general lol) and guns respectively is not an infringement on the second amendment.