In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Prevent foreign home ownership, prevent corporate capture of the housing market, build more housing that's affordable.
How about fixing the housing crisis?
Pass some meaningful regulation on landlords to keep rents in line with income.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Can’t qualify to rent because you need to make 3x the amount of rent.
$15 dollars an hour doesn’t cut it in many cities/town.
You may qualify but the corporately owned rental raises rent every year.
Just ask Tricon.
It's not always being a slumlord, it is always being a parasite.
Like, the best landlord is a parasite who lives up to the bare minimum of their legal obligations while basically having you pay them because they bought the house before anyone else could and kept it to profit off of.
Even at 15$ minimum wage that's a take home of 1900 a month which isn't enough to cover rent, or even qualify for a place to rent.
Much less food, gas, clothing, a car, insurance, healthcare etc.
I know an elderly woman that had to have roommates and It was scary to listen to the stories of verbal abuse.
She was finally able to move and share a small house with her elderly single sister.
They lucked out that the home owner was their brother and sister in law.
Not everyone is lucky like she was.
At 61 I barely make enough $ it’s scary to think letting someone you don’t know move in so you can pay the bills.
Where I live, rent and buying a house is high considering wages aren’t that great.
You can spend 400k on a house here and it’s a piece of crap.
Condo 2/1 aren’t bad until you get saddled with high monthly HOA’s.
Most slumlords aren't just "bad landlords" they're landlords who are literally violating multiple tenant laws.
The "good landlords" are just the ones who don't violate your rights as a tenant.
Also sorry I just re-read this, electrical grid?
How many rental properties have the landlord paying for the electric in your unit?
The closest I have EVER had to this is that they added it to my rent instead of having me get my own account.
Would you also be in favor of turning over municipal water supplies and firefighters and police to private companies?
If not then you're already fine with living in a command economy for certain things.
Firstly.
No it doesn't.
Year over year rent increases are to increase profits year over year, not to keep up with the inflating costs of hiring a painter once every few years.