Sounds like russian propaganda to keep EU divided.
Blame Germans for everything.
It's been a while since Germans acknowledged that Russia is not to be trusted, decided to cut their losses and are actively supporting the Ukraine.
Germany is only european country which contributed to this war on so many different ways.
And now germany is trying to make business with china.
To buy products of russian gas from them.
China is still russia ally.
Germany is making sure russia can earn money to make reserves for war.
When russia lose germany will sink with them and germany cant allow that.
Germany is as bad as russia in this conflict or even worse.
They are using russia to destroy competition.
They affraid of ukraine and if ukraine lose germany will win.
Nord Stream was built long before the invasion and is now long gone.
You are mixing past and present to make them look bad, but in truth Germans are able to say : we were wrong and change their stance.
Something that many people or counties can't.
Its clear im talking abou ns2, not ns1.
And it still exist, still can send gas.
Lower amounts for higher price.
Unless germany knee against russia.
The fact that German society is afraid of atomic energy is unfortunate effect of russian propaganda that they were being fed for years, but who cares what kind of energy they are going to get?
They can't forbid other countries to get that and they know it.
I wasnt wrong about germany when I predicted war, im not wrong about germany now.
Maybe you are wrong, not learning on history.
And not understanding business connections between germany and rus.
Maybe underestimating power of money.
Actively supporting?
How?
Scholz is still phone calling putin and waiting to back to business.
Do you remember begining of war?
When europe supported ukraine with weapons germans were sending helmets for few months because they cant find address.
Now germans pooping themselves to dont help ukraine at all to keep good relationships with russia.
They focus to promise a lot and do even less.
Germany is actively blocking sanctions over russia.
German chancellor is one of most trusted putins people, head of gazprom.
And why war started?
Because germans built nord stream to sabotage europe energy system with russia gas.
Again - german chancellor schroeder is one of putin most trusted people.
He ruled germany.
And he is in gazprom board.
Is it coincidence?
Germans are pretty smart, why they should get their hands dirty when they have polish and hungarian governments?
But when it comes to setting common price for russian fuels, germany openly opposed to be sure they can gain profits and dont weaken too much their strategic partner.
Ans yes, hungary is extremally pro russian.
And what it change in context of germany being extrmally pro russian?
Its called symmetrism when you justify wrong actions of one with same from another.
Germans are evil.
ROFL.
Last time it was Hungary who blocked help to Ukraine and then Poland because they wanted to make EU bend a little in favour.
Germans have already delivered some armoured units.
Please remind me, which european country have loudest russian minority and allows them to protest FOR war freely, in the same time silencing ukraininians protesting against war?
They are still waiting to make business again, gas isnt only field they cooperate.
Germans will do anything to speed things up.
They are nowhere close enough yo Kyiv to do such a thing, unless belorussia enters the war.
Most of the war effort on both sides are actually centered on the south of ukraine around the Dnieper river.