In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Agreeing to a concession that allows the caucus to remove him is effectively castration.
He is a political eunuch, impotent without someone else to do the real work for him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
McCarthy gave Boobert what she asked for.
"Just as the Speaker is elected by the whole body, we will restore the ability for any 5 members of the majority party to initiate a vote to remove the Speaker if so warranted," he wrote in a letter to his Republican colleagues on Sunday.
The Republicans that are mad at McCarthy don't like the fact that the budget went through.
They wanted a short-term measure so they could play games.
It's demolition derby politics.
Terrorist is the right word.
They want to hold the entire country hostage.
At this point, it's not even about the person.
The Freedom Caucus just wants to make a show of force like they did in overthrowing Boehner and denying McCarthy the Speakership in 2015, even if they don't have an endgame.
And this is why Boehner called Jim Jordan a legislative terrorist (although Jordan isn't part of the drama this time).
McCarthy is just unlucky enough to be a victim twice.
It doesn't help that McCarthy is a spineless blowhard more interested in acquiring a new job title than amassing power.
He's ensured that he'll be nothing more than a paper tiger, a puppet for whoever manages to actually come out on top within the House of Representatives.
It would, except the House gives the minority party much less power than they could expect in the Senate.
The majority party in the House basically has complete control of the agenda, as well as the chair for virtually every committee.