In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That said, I know Newsom has said he’ll appoint a black woman if/when Feinstein retires if it’s mid term, so that could be a complicating factor if the hypothetical replacement wants to run against Porter.
Either way, a strong younger democrat would have no trouble winning over six more years of Feinstein.
I think most Californians are disappoint have all agreed that Feinstein needs to go.
Whether or not you like her, I think we all realize that she needs to just go back home and be with her family for however long she may have left.
I don’t know a single Californian who wants Feinstein to run again in ‘24 at age 91.
I think some very old insecure baby boomers 75+ might feel attacked by it, but most voters have been ready for her to step aside for about 10 years at this point.
She represented us well in the 90s, but times have changed and she’s just too conservative and out of touch for Californians in the 2020s.
Porter is a great successor, and I think people would absolutely get behind her if she is the nominee.
I don’t think it really matters who Newsom nominates, I think the problem is for him that Katie Porter has a fairly large brand for someone who is still relatively new to politics.
Can you name for me one black woman of note from California who is not Kamala Harris?
I certainly can’t.
I think the problem is though that Porter has already announced and the only real way that Feinstein is leaving her seat is if she dies as morbid as that may be.
Sure, I guess she could always walk back her nomination, but I kind of don’t think that’s likely.
No one is owed a Senate seat, so even if they are the incumbent, I think many people would be very disappointed if Katie Porter did not run.
I was talking about what would happen if Feinstein retires before ‘24.
If not, anyone can run in ‘24; but if she does, Newsom will appoint a replacement Senator, not nominate.
Fair enough on details of nomination compared to appointment.
However, I still don’t think Porter would back down.
The appointment would still only be until the next election so whoever is appointed would still need to be re-elected and I think some folks are underestimating Katie Porter’s popularity.
That’s a fair point I suppose, but I also think that a lot of people might be kind of peeved if she took the LA Mayor position and then wanted to go straight into the Senate.
She certainly knows about Feinstein, so I don’t think anyone should be surprised they are, but you would think if she was going to run for senate, she probably wouldn’t have run for mayor of LA.