I’m curious how much Russia’s inability to get air power over Ukraine is going to reflect on the rest of the modern militaries.
Seems like a lot of these air defense systems are almost the Rock to their Scissors, more than they were even intended to be.
That really depends on what your air force is for.
For most countries it is a defensive force so it doesn't really need the ability to operate against ground based AA.
When you need to use your aircraft on the offensive against a integrated air defense system (IADS) the mission is make it safe is called (SEAD).
Basically the only countries in history that has done that are either the USA or people operating with the USA.
On paper the Tornado ECRs give German and Italy that capability, but they don't have same quantity , training, jamming support that the USA has.
F-35 operators might also see it as able to fill this role, but it hasn't been shown to be great at it.
Russia had a few Su-24MP, and Pods that could , theoretically, be added to other aircraft.
But the big push was land based EW not aircraft based.
Combine that with the training and sorte rate for RU in this war and it's looks pretty bad.
Part of this is the Russian military is structured to repel invaders, but that is a longer post then this.
China is one of the few militaries trying to build up a SEAD mission abilities, but the J-16D hasn't seen any combat and the YJ-91 is based of Russia designs that haven't worked well in Ukraine.
Lots of other countries have in inventory but that is not the same thing as suppressing air defense.
First is practice, the USA (and countries working with them) has been the only military to carry out real SEAD missions in the last 50 years.
Second is technology, not only does the US spend a lot on R&D into abilities with RADAR and Electronic Warfare, it also developed stealth which is a major counter to air defenses.
^1 Ok this might not be true depending on how you count helicopters, transports and reserve aircraft.
Third is quantity.
The largest Air force in the world is US Air Force.
The 2nd largest is the US Navy^1 .
Not only does the US have dedicated SEAD aircraft and drones, they have long range jamming aircraft and the abilities to add jamming to almost any aircraft.
They also have enough precision guided weapons that they can just fly above MANPAD range.
It's a matter of depth and cost.
Any system that fires missiles can be counter attacked and the US is great at locating vital points and killing them with precision strikes.
I would argue that the treat of a nuclear weapon response works a deterrence that protects things like Moscow.
If the US and allies decided to try to erase Russia off the map.
Just full out bomb the entire thing.
Is that possible?
If they had intelligence that russia was going to use nukes is there anyway we could destroy their stockpiles before firing enough off to destroy the world ?
So part of the MAD (mutually assured destruction) doctrine is that each side protects it's retaliatory abilities from just this type or first strike attack.
This means that Russian ICBMs are in very deep bunkers and are spread out so each one would require a massive effort to destroy them.
Some are also mobile and could be hidden in many places.
The hardest to deal with are the submarine based ICBMs.
There mission is to go out to see and hide.
They are almost impossible to find.
So No.
Do you think we know where their deep hidden ones in russia are ?
Im sure weve been at least trying to think of a way to address that correct ?
What if all of the generals or whatever were killed?
Do the subs need a direct order to launch or could captain make that determination?
What if radio silence was their only communication?
Think they would just launch ?
And how much damage could one sub do ?
And how many subs do they have?