When I was 16, I was pretty much an idiot who thought he knew the whole thing, beginning to end, smartest kid in the room anywhere.
That kid would have totally agree with this decision, and embraced it, and engaged in the whole process.
Of course now in my 50's I know that I didn't know shit, and most of my opinions were based on fucking nothing, or just what I heard randomly somewhere that sounded cool or whatever...but I still like the idea of engaging, rather than alienating the young.
I never experienced that.
I like the idea that things could be done better, and let's give it a try.
Takes a little trust, but the alternative is what?
Does an 89 year old care about climate change?
The country sliding towards authoritarianism?
Future government debt?
And what about war?
As a 57 year old my attitude is very different from when I was 16 because I do not have to worry about being drafted or having to fight.
the biggest difference is the 16yr old would vote based on what they think is going on in the world and what is important to them.
The 89 yr old votes on based how they think they world should be, how the world used to be, how the world was during their best years which might have been 50 years ago.
A very very large portion of adults who vote have absolutely no idea how their governments work, how economies work, how their vote might affect their situation.
I'd bet in 9 out of 10 cases a country run only be 16-20yr olds voting would work much better than a country with only 65+yr olds voting.
Young people are very often the most cruel because they still see world pretty naively and idealistic.
They can do the greatest thing and the worst.Good example of that was cultural revolution in China.
Good question, and disturbingly difficult to answer well.
It's been a long time, and that mindset is hard to conjure back up.
I suppose one of the most glaring mistakes was to think that people generally get what they deserve, for better or worse.
Like there is some kind of cosmic karma that guides things.
Thinking that made me rather judgmental and unforgiving.
Of course, being older, I know that's absurd.
I've seen too many good people knocked down early by tragic events and misfortunes they didn't deserve, and too many never could get back up.
Meantime, I've seen too many shitty people live easy lives of luxury, and suffer no consequences whatsoever for being shitty people.
You can't judge a person by how their life turned out, basically.
Second, I had been raised in religion back then, and my rejection of it was more than a little unbalanced.
I could be rather snide and superior while pointing out the inconsistencies in "the book", and all the bad stuff it was used to justify, and the magical thinking involved.
But then when my grandma, who was one of the most objectively good people I ever knew, passed away when I was in my early 20's, our whole extended family came to mourn, and the church ceremonies were really moving.
I didn't believe, of course, but my grandma and my family were Catholic, and I couldn't help but see that the whole thing really helped.
Religion is there because people need it sometimes, and I eventually came to respect it as an essential part of human life.
True or not, it's a tool we need from time to time.
Any tool can be misused, but it's not the tools fault.
When I was younger I would have judged the previous three sentences to be an intolerable display of mental weakness.
But being older I know we're all just people doing our best, mostly, and nobody is as strong as they need to be all the time.
And then maybe for the third, I thought that a capable person would just choose where they wanted to go, and then work toward that, and it would work out.
In other words, you find yourself in a certain place and wish to go to another place, then you proceed until you get there.
Of course in practice there are all kinds of random twists and turns, and half the time you can't even remember where you intended to go in all the windy paths and curveballs life tends to throw at you.
I thought it was all about deciding, then applying one's will.
In reality we don't really have many actual decisions in life, and most of those we hardly know whether they are going to work out or not.