In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“This is really going to do damage to America... All the rules that once governed our discourse have been blown away and we’re headed in a very dangerous direction.”.
Yeah, and Ye is ok because he’s only against the Jews?
Like WTH is it 1930’s all over again?
People should study the Make America Great movement from the 1930’s.
Yeah, and now they saw what happened last election and are trying to tone it down.
They're already entrenched with the hate they've generated and trying to walk it back now is a lost cause.
“For years to come, there are many people on the right... that are going to be having to explain and justify how they fell into this trap of supporting Donald Trump.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
“This is now multiple rallies where people are assaulted and beat up.
Where a guy gets sucker punched by one of the Trump supporters.
And then, instead of condemning it, Trump is silent.”.
“He has said to people basically beat up the protesters... Maybe you think it’s a joke, but there are people out there that are not balanced...
They hear something like this from a leader, you don’t know what they’re going to do.”.
“Listen to the way he describes himself and what he’s going to do.
He’s going to single-handedly do this, and do that, without regard for whether its legal or not.”.
“Wake up… and realize what’s happening here.
Because if we reach a point in this country where we can’t have a debate... where people think that just because you’re angry you can say and almost do anything you want, we’re going to lose our republic.”.
“You mark my words, there will be prominent people in American politics who will spend years explaining... how they fell into this.”.