West Bank isnt in israel.
Occupation soldiers arent cops any more than Russian occupation soldiers in Ukraine are cops.
Russian civilians have no rights in Ukraine and israeli civilians have no right to be in West Bank.
It is not Israeli territory and is occupied.
Not a single country on the planet recognises West Bank as israeli territory.
Israel never officially withdrew from the Oslo accords.
If they did, there would be no Palestinian Authority, no Area A/B/C, etc.
And indeed, they would gain more rights to employ lethal force all across the West Bank, not less.
The Oslo Accords aren't giving Israel any powers it didn't have as an Occupying Power.
It's removing part of its powers (civil control of Area B, civil and military control over Area A), in exchange for removing parts of its obligations.
If it's cancelled, it means the IDF gains more freedom to act militarily within the OPT, in exchange for having to take care of the education, healthcare and so on, of the Palestinians in areas A and B.
It doesn't matter what Netanyahu "boasted about".
Just like it doesn't matter that Arafat brazenly violated Oslo by launching the Second Intifada, or that Abbas is brazenly violating it by financially supporting terrorism.
It doesn't even matter that Abbas openly said, , that he's withdrawing from Oslo.
Oslo is a legal regime, that was never cancelled.
The PA still exists.
It still maintains both administrative and security control of Area A, where most West Bank Palestinians live.
The Civil Administration didn't resume its direct control of the West Bank.
Oslo is absolutely still in place.
And again, if Oslo was actually cancelled, it would mean the IDF would have more leeway to employ lethal force in the West Bank, not less.
I'm not sure what's the point of that argument.
Both Israel and Palestine adhere to Oslo.
The PA still exists.
What Netanyahu "boasts" about, and even what Abbas officially and solemnly declares, means jack shit while that's the case.
Oslo is still in place.