In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Their base certainly does, and Republicans care a whole lot about the votes and donations of their base.
They will at least pretend to care about troop morale.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Personally, I'd favor cutting both weapons programs and troop pay and benefits.
Congress hasn't had a raise since 2009, but the military gets one every single year, even during the Great Recession.
Maybe its my memory, but I don't recall Rand Paul giving a single solitary fuck about military spending during Trump's Presidency.
Cutting pay & benefits is incredibly costly in the long run, and a short-sighted solution that I highly doubt "a veteran" who didn't need an ASVAB waiver would ever propose.
Right now there is a recruiting and retention problem.
Cutting benefits is an insanely stupid idea, purely from a cold logic at the brain drain as seasoned NCOs and CGOs punch out at 10 instead of doing 20+ years, and recruiting woes are usually Band-Aid fixed by lowering standards, meaning you get dumber, more trouble-prone recruits who are less likely to even complete their initial enlistment.
Or they'll damage multi-million dollar equipment or jets because the don't have the cognitive skills to competently do complex repairs.
Or get a pilot killed.
Do you really want some dumbass doing an engine rebuild on an F-16?
Or a mechanic distracted from their work because they're worrying about their finances?
Will Hobby Lobby also throw in 100% free health and dental care and tax exempt allowances which are not included in that "little over $20 an hour"?
Or how about 30 days paid vacation a year, starting the first year?
I pride myself on objectivity and I call them as I see them.
Have you ever noticed how many veterans there are in congress?
Ever think about why?
They're uniquely well suited to it.
The military requires the ability to nuance communication, to say things without actually saying them, to communicate through implication.
I frequently hear Senators condemned for this very thing.
As an objective person, I try to judge everyone by the same yardstick, no double standards.
If it's wrong for one, it's wrong for everyone.
And I don't know that congress needs a raise, but I don't think the Colonels and generals and admirals need one either.
Their resumes are similarly impressive, and you might be surprised how close their overall compensation packages are also.
Still, they get a raise every year.
I made the point about senior officers because otherwise it's a false equivalency.
With a few exceptions which only serve to prove the rule (AOC, Boebert, Santos, etc.
), the people we send to congress are well educated, professional, and accomplished.
Corporals and sergeants are, well, not, at least not yet.
Of course they're not compensated anything like Senators are.
Their resumes don't compare, at least not yet.
Now, senior officers, OTOH, are accomplished and usually hold a graduate degree.
And as I said, their compensation does compare with that of legislators on Capitol Hill.