In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I see this as a subsidy for American industry.
The government doesn’t necessarily have to turn a profit on projects and, in theory, the economic growth generated should come back in revenues.
Social Security and Medicare are INSURANCE POLICIES that we pay for.
Not "hand outs".
The reason that those laws were passed in the first place is because so many of those wonderful "free market" private insurers made bad investments at best and lost their shirts or took the money and ran at worst, leaving seniors, disabled persons and the others who PAID INTO THEIR POLICIES without resources.
The idea of government oversight in these programs is so dishonest and greedy people DON'T abscond with the money.
Now Republicans have decided that THEY want to play the role of the greedy, irresponsible thieves and either privatize the programs, leaving them open to abuse or to just take all of the money that WE HAVE PAID INTO THE SYSTEM....OUR MONEY, and distribute it to those who need it least: the wealthy.
Is all of this being clear to you?
NOT handouts.
OUR money.
OUR insurance and retirement policies.
NOT "entitlements".
Strongly disagree for numerous reasons but probably most principally because I think any substantive effort to reduce economic inequality is impossible in a globalized market.
If the US raises wages or imposes environmental regulations and imposes no penalties for companies to simply avoid them by replacing american workers with more obedient serfs/pliable government overseas then pursuing a better future is impossible.
I also think the huge glut of professional class low social utility jobs is a bubble that will burst with disastrous consequences if core production is not reshored in the US.
Economic efficiency in practice is more or less a euphemism for the percentage of wealth that can be retained by capitalists rather than wasted on disgusting plebs workers or making your product better.
I'm not a marxist but probably the best example of class warfare I can think of.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Strictly from an economic point of view I highly doubt that net government revenue benefits from buying foreign goods.
If goods are bought in the US then a significant portion of the proceeds are returned to the government through taxes and the more jobs in America the less the government needs to spend on social programs like welfare.
That being said the government should essentially be understood as a self-help organization for Americans and poverty reduction in the US is likely worth more than its strict economic benefit in dollars.
I'd say while the global elite are overwhelming the true beneficiaries of free trade and the working and middle class of wealthy countries are generally the losers there is some utilitarian argument about the global working class.
Mexican smallholder farmers were decimated while portions of the Mexican urban working class benefited e.g.
On net I'd see the benefit has been fairly clearly demonstrated in East Asia and much more of a wash everywhere else when factoring in that gains from technological progression would have occurred anyway and how much alternative systems with competent administration could have achieved in a more closed system.
That being said I care far less about the rest of the world than America.
America is my community and I weigh American interests significantly more.
I would much rather the money be kept here.