In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The republicans should have never nominated a person like Trump, the republican senators should have ejected trump in impeachment number 1, the DOJ should have indicted trump based on the obstruction Mueller proved in his report, the current president shouldn’t be so worried about looking political, it is by definition, the American people should not be so poorly represented at such a high cost.
Our federal government regardless of party has been corrupted by big $ and the American people continue to pay the bill while working two jobs and unable to afford health care.
The disinformation machine is hard to overcome.
It should be obvious that if you care about humans and their well being, then who I vote for is obvious to me.
republicans are fucking me and us over by giving tax cuts to the rich so the country is always broke.
and were told this country is just too broke we cant possibly keep feeding the schoolchildren and we cant possibly keep social security and medicare and medicaid.
Republicans are proposing to cut social security, some suggesting that they decide if they should renew it every year or every 5 years, which is not how you run a long term social safety program.
And if old Republicans relying on social security or just about to need it because they didn't save enough for retirement STILL vote for those guys.
I mean, either their just totally ignorant or they think it's a joke and are just really dense as to what those cuts would mean.
It would mean a whole bunch of poor and middle class people don't get to retire.
They will never have enough money to scrap by without a job, who's ok with that?
I'm not.
And for me it always comes back to money in politics.
Capitalists have had the working people of this country by the throat back 150 years, with some brief shift in power in the early 1900s.
We need another shift to get money out of politics for good, until then we will be on a cliff looking down at the decent into fascism.
You got these ding nuts believing some vast pedophilia adrenochrome conspiracies, meanwhile the corporate boards are buying the politicians and using red meat wedge issues to fuck us all over.
It's an obvious conspiracy its just that they openly bribe politicians while pretending they didn't just openly bribe that politician.
Absolutely correct, but once big $ takes hold it’s like a cancer, hard to remove, but if enough of us can see it we can reject it in every way possible, starting by voting against self republican elitist!
Vote America.