__No quick decisions should be made when discussing the confiscation of Russian assets for the reconstruction of Ukraine, insists Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis.__.
“In Switzerland major legal adjustments would be needed, in which the people would probably have the final say,” he said in an interview with the Tamedia newspapers on Friday.
He said the right to property is a great asset and is enshrined in the Charter of Human Rights – it is just as important as freedom of expression.
“Theoretically, both can be overturned, but we have to think about how to do that without falling back into the Middle Ages,” he said.
Cassis said Switzerland was under pressure make the frozen money available if Russian funds spread around the world are to be used for the reconstruction of Ukraine.
“There is already international pressure for all states to participate, and therefore also for us,” he said.
This idea is controversial.
In banking circles, for example, there are fears that a restriction of the guarantee of ownership and legal security could be the beginning of the end for the Swiss financial centre.
At the federal level, an internal administrative working group is currently examining legal questions concerning assets frozen in connection with the Russian attack on Ukraine.
The working group intends to present its analysis to the government in the coming weeks, the Federal Office of Justice said on Thursday.
According to the latest information from the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), assets of CHF7.5 billion have been frozen in Switzerland in connection with the war in Ukraine.
The same applies to 15 properties.
The sanctions list now includes 1,368 people and 171 companies and organisations.
There is a danger that the most clever and resourceful criminals are precisely the ones who are most likely to escape justice with their assets.
At the same time civil liberties must be preserved.
It is time to accelerate change.
Despite recent criticisms of ineffective or overly traditional institutions, I believe the Swiss can and will do the right thing.
In the United States civil asset forfeiture is a judicial procedure used to obtain clear title to property which was derived from crime or was used to commit crime.
There are a number of statutes at the federal and state level which authorize forfeiture.
Property is often forfeited as part of a sentence in a criminal case (a convicted bank robber would forfeit the proceeds of the robbery in this way).
If a criminal case is not possible, such as if a government has seized an asset but does not have jurisdiction where the crime was committed, then forfeiture may occur as a civil action.
The exciting thing in Switzerland is that different political opinions work together, be it parties or people.
We have socialist, right-wing, christians, liberals, green, a car and nazi party and there is no opposition.
Something that we Swiss do not like at all are people who enrich themselves from our alpine kingdom and give nothing back.
It would help.
have any seen damage russians did ?
Do you think you can rebuild 300 billion damage with 7.5?
What about lives and personal property damage.