In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This isn't a complex issue; government-compelled speech is not free speech and government-compelled association is not free association.
It basically said a company-owned town, where even the sidewalks were company owned, could not prevent Jehovah's Witnesses from handing out literature.
Check out , to see why it might not be a clear cut case, and why the "town square" keeps popping up on articles like this.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There have been subsequent cases that add to the nuance, and there's more nuance to the Marsh case itself.
The current SCOTUS, despite its many problems and questions of legitimacy, is right in the context of previously decided cases, to treat this as something that needs a closer look.
The company town argued it was a private space, like a home, but SCOTUS disagreed, saying it was essentially a public space where one would expect public discourse, and therefore, First Amendment protections applied.
So we have a very long history of saying privately owned spaces can still be treated as public spaces for the purposes of First Amendment rights.
Florida is wrong as usual, there's a need for standard "moderation" lest you have again people above the law.
Furthermore i'll note that by viewpoint the far right almost only and always mean "neonazism", mysteriously enough.
'cause the second it's something the governor of florida don't like, he passes law to immediately criminalize it directly (like their "don't say gay" law or his many attempts against schools/universities).