In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
By time the 2024 Presidential election rolls around we are on target to have avoided a major recession and inflation will have returned to normal levels as all of the world economic machinations return to normal levels following the effects of a world wide pandemic.
There are positive signs that inflation is cooling.
We just added 519K jobs to the economy -the lowest unemployment rate this country has experienced in more than 50 years, and that is despite recent job cuts announced by some of the biggest tech companies out there.
When the gears of a world economy come screeching to a halt because of a world wide pandemic, its going to take a few years to get it all back up and firing on all cylinders again.
I'm just glad the Dems are in charge and I have faith that they will get the job done because they've had a pretty good track record of fixing every economy fucked up by a Republican administration the past 40 years.
Why would anyone ever vote for another Republican?
I just don't get it.
Dems want to govern and make government work while Republicans are dead set on deconstructing government at all levels and at all costs from within and hand the keys over to corporations.
Then tell Congress to pass some kind of windfall profits tax.
With this inflation, why are companies reporting record profits?
There's no reason that gas prices are this high except Exxon wanted a $59,000,000,000 profit.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Once again.
It takes a Republican administration to screw up the economy and a Democratic administration to fix it again.
Just look at the past 40 years.
The Clinton (D-AR) administration's economic achievement (1992 -2000) after George H.W.
Bush Senior (R-TX).
Look at Obama's economic achievements (2008 -2016) after George W Bush Jr (R-TX).
Now look at the Biden administration's economy after Trump (R-NY) -and we're only two years in!