The US already threw the first punch with the Korean War.
They were also the first ones to bring nuclear weapons to the Korean Peninsula, and they have been openly calling for the destruction of North Korea for years while ignoring any attempt for peace.
You post often condemning the US and other “capitalist” countires and praise the USSR, China, and North Korea, and openly make false statements such as this one, tell me how you think north Korea invading the south was not the first punch.
The whole reason there was two in the first place was under Japanese occupation it got invaded by the USSR and the US on both sides.
And the only reason there’s two now is China didn’t allow North Korea to get conquered.
So if you wanna go back further to prove it then you can’t blame solely the US.
Please do not respond with communist or North Korean apologetics, you cannot tell me in good faith North Korea is in any realm better than the south.
I feel for the people forced to live in that nightmare.
You said it yourself when you said China didn't let North Korea get conquered.
The US wanted to conquer all of Korea, and the "first punch" was when the US arbitrarily divided the country, and conquered the south.
The North wanted to conquer all of South Korea, it invaded to do as much.
The UN was defending a sovereign nation from being invaded.
Go live in North Korea and see if you enjoy your time there, instead of South Korea, such a horrible fate that befell upon them by the big bad US.
/s If you couldn’t tell.
The line was also agreed upon by both the US and the USSR.
Unless of course you’re implying the USSR had to bend to the will of the United States and accept such a divide.
I’m sure based on what you’ve been saying that’s what you meant.
The line was meant to be a temporary measure, but the Cold War prolonged that and know here we are 77 years later.
After this response if you reply back with willfully incorrect history or outright lies I will ignore it.
The south was not a sovereign country, they were being ruled by a US installed dictator who was killing many of his own people (look up the Jeju Uprising for one example).
I'm not talking about living in North Korea today, I'm talking about the Korean War and the history of US aggression and the influences that has.
North Korea was objectively more free and prosperous than South Korea until the fall of the Soviet Union.
You have to remember that after Syngman Rhee was overthrown South Korea was ruled by a military junta until the 80s.
After Japan was kicked out of Korea people in both the north and south started developing their own democratic systems.
Then the US arbitrarily divided the country at the 38th parallel, and established a military occupation in the south.
This occupation destroyed the democratic institutions that had been set up, and kept officials and collaborators from the Japanese colonial government in power.
Then the US installed a dictator to rule the south.
Syng-man Rhee made it his mission to suppress and kill anyone he thought might be socialist.
Given that context I don't think it was that North Korea was trying to force anything on the south, but that they were trying to drive an occupying force out of their country, like they had done with the Japanese.
You are correct in that they wanted to drive out a force from “their” country.
Much in the same way Russia wants to drive a force from “their” country in ukraine.
They invaded.
Japan gave up control in 1945.
Leaving a vacuum for power differing opinions took root.
Communism in the north( supported by USSR) and Democracy in the south (supported by USA).
They were all Koreans but had different ideologies.
America wanted to support a budding new democracy and stop the advancement of communism.
A line was created in 1945 after WWII at the 38th parallel agreed by America and USSR to separate the two ideologies that both countries supported.
Then June 25, 1950 North Korea crossed the line invading South Korea.
And kicked off the Korean War.
Huh?
You can objectively say America should probably not have been there in the first place.
But first punch???
North Korea said we want South Korea to be communist.
America said we will help to make that not happen.
Do not cross this line North.
They crossed it and the Korean War started.
It was handled poorly and all that.
But first punch????
Really???
?
As I said, they did a bad job of it.
I am not arguing that the USA did a good job.
But to say the USA provoked or threw the first punch is just wrong.