In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This is indicative of a problem with America in general.
You can't use economics to solve moral/ethical problems.
The two just aren't compatible.
It incentivizes putting a price on things that inherently are invaluable, like clean water, air, and human lives.
It reduces people's lives to dollars and cents, and it allows the rationalization of harmful choices as "just the cost of business.
".
Yeah, it’s as bad as you think.
What kind of sociopath thinks like that.
Well, the child died so they won’t be a burden on society because of their childhood.
It’s gotten to the point for me that I just have no clue what the fuck the Republican Party is, certainly not policy wise.
The only things I observe as constants for them is hate and ignorance, with their words and actions a smoke screen so they can act like the shit bags they are.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I wish it weren’t so.
It’s healthy to have debates by two or more honest parties, and I’d love to have a government made of people and parties that vehemently argued about how to assist society to be happy, healthy, and whole.
Alas, cheating and what not is a trait of organisms, and unfortunately for us, institutions of power are natural paths of least resistant for those who lie, cheat, and steal.
What’s also unfortunate is the opposite type of person doesn’t have time to police such a large institution, and apparently the safeguards are never adequate.
Thus history repeats.
Anyways, I’ve found myself rambling again!
It’s typical.
These types are hopelessly myopic.
I mean, if we’re talking dollars, would it not stand to reason that a child that grows into a healthy adult is far more “profitable” to society than a dead child?
For Christ’s sake, for a party that claims economic prowess as one of their strenhs, they don’t seem to fully grasp what an investment is.
It’s some type of zero sum thinking; there is a pie and only one pie that has only a few slices, I must grab all I can in this moment before everyone gets pie!