In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
From reporters Devlin Barrett, Jacqueline Alemany, Perry Stein, Josh Dawsey, Ann E. Marimow and Carol D. Leonnig: The FBI was initially reluctant to investigate Donald Trump’s possession of classified documents, and cautious when it did so.
FBI officials had a lot to worry about in late July as they discussed whether to search one of Donald Trump’s homes for evidence of crimes.
Two concerns were paramount: Any search warrant should be authorized by the attorney general himself, and they did not want the former president to be at Mar-a-Lago when it happened.
It is standard FBI practice to remove and detain a homeowner while their property is being searched.
And while the nation’s top law enforcement officials were willing to take the once-inconceivable step of getting a court order to search not just Trump’s office but also his residence, they wanted to avoid doing anything that required them to physically remove Trump from his home, leaving the 45th commander in chief standing in his driveway like a suspected drug dealer or white-collar crook.
The FBI also was wary of the remote possibility of a “blue on blue” confrontation — between the federal agents searching the location and the Secret Service agents who guard the former president, according to people familiar with the matter, who like others interviewed for this article spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal discussions.“Executing a search like that is sensational enough.
Doing it without the former president there is probably the best good-faith effort you can make to reducing the probability of it becoming even more sensationalized,” said Jeffrey Cortese, a former FBI supervisor.
“They would want to get in and get out without any complications.”.
The Mar-a-Lago case was very different.
There was no ladder for investigators to climb, because the potential target was plainly Trump, suspected of taking highly classified documents when he left the White House and keeping them at Mar-a-Lago, his residence and private club in South Florida, all in apparent violation of the most basic standards of handling national security secrets.
Leaders of the Justice Department were proceeding cautiously as well, agreeing with the FBI on these points even as tensions sometimes flared between agents and prosecutors.On the day he became attorney general, Merrick Garland inherited a massive investigation into the pro-Trump riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, which threatened the peaceful transition of power to Joe Biden.
Prosecutors were working from the bottom up to see if a criminal case could be made against high-profile people such as Trump over the insurrection or the attempt to sabotage the certification of election results.
While the Jan. 6 investigation was drawing more headlines, fueled by a series of closely watched prime-time hearings on Capitol Hill, the Justice Department’s decisions about the Mar-a-Lago case put the agency more directly on a collision course with Trump.
The nation’s top law enforcement officials knew any misstep could have devastating long-term consequences for the Justice Department, the FBI and the country.
This account of the documents investigation, described by people familiar with the internal workings of the case, shows key and previously unreported moments when authorities decided they had no choice but to take action, and describes the attempts they made to minimize legal risk and avoid mistakes.
Their path — from the realization early this year that some classified documents taken to Mar-a-Lago contained nuclear secrets to Garland’s decision last month to appoint a special counsel — illustrates the stark challenges of conducting a criminal probe when the person under investigation is a former president.
So basically, yet another example of the FBI giving the Orange Shitgibbon special treatment.
Any other Joe Shit the Ragman would have been roughly thrown up against a wall, cuffed and stuck in a black SUV for the duration of the search.
Another example that the US does have royalty.