In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If the think the DoJ is protecting Hunter then of course they can go digging around about that, but then that's about the DoJ, not Hunter.
The Republicans will waste years rehashing the dumbest shit "scandals" they've been peddling the past two years.
Republicans will do nothing to help the average american in the next two years.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Hunter Biden is a civilian.
Congressional republicans don't need to be involved really, there's the DoJ for that.
A recent poll from Suffolk University revealed that just 5% of Americans want House Republicans to investigate the Biden administration.
According to the Suffolk University Poll on 2023 national issues, investigating the Biden administration ranks seventh on the list of national priorities with only 5% support.
If House Republicans try to make an issue out of investigating Biden, they will be quickly seen through by the vast majority of Americans as the same poll also found that 51% of respondents said that any investigations into Biden are a political effort to embarrass the Biden administration, and 38% expressed the belief that the investigations are an appropriate way to hold Biden accountable.
Thirty-eight percent is a key number in US public opinion polling because it represents the top end of Republican support.
Typically the Republican view comes in at 35%-38% in polls.
The fact that just 38%feel that Biden investigations are appropriate suggests that the support is almost all in the Republican Party.
House Republicans are unlikely to be able to pass any serious or meaningful legislation with their four-seat majority.
They are counting on keeping the base happy with investigations into Biden, but the nation as a whole sees investigating as a low priority, so every minute that Jim Jordan and his Republican colleagues spend investigating Biden will contribute to their failure and downfall.