In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I can see it, Years ago I worked for a "non profit" that was theoretically providing services to an underserved population but a huge portion of the funds went to contracted service providers that were very friendly with the non profit company's administration.
As a society we're not willing to spend money on = education, eliminating poverty, mental health, or even basic healthcare so we don't have a chance in hell of stopping violent crime in any of our lifetimes.
Even if we funded all those things we have so much political corruption that the money would never reach the right people.
You don’t need to be convicted of a crime to have your guns confiscated for being a violent threat in Colorado.
This coward is a text book example of what red flag gun laws are for.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Unfortunately local law enforcement and his own family didn’t give a shit.
They’d rather it be a “Second Amendment Preservation County” where a guy can just go shoot up innocent folks.
He’s on video threatening police with a bomb and daring them to breach so he can detonate it.
Yet the prosecutor, police, and his family did absolutely nothing.
At first it sounds like a terrible idea, but given that law enforcement selectively targets certain individuals and groups, and selectively ignores crimes by others, it’s in the common good despite the potential problems it created in this instance.
Better to have one horrific incident with 5 deaths than 10,000 lives destroyed by bad policing.
Probably this guy was in the “we’ll ignore it” group anyway and would have done this regardless of whether or not his record was sealed.