CNN - It has to count as one of the strangest PR campaigns in memory: using a pile of corpses to make your case to the powers that be.
That’s what Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of the Russian mercenary group Wagner, appears to have done this week in an unusual public appeal for ammunition for his fighters in Ukraine.
And in the process, he has cast a harsh light on his open feud with Russia’s military leadership on the eve of the anniversary of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
On Wednesday, Prigozhin posted a picture on Telegram showing the bodies of several dozen slain Wagner fighters, piled unceremoniously in a courtyard.
Alongside that shocking photo, he posted the image of a formal request from Wagner for more ammunition, pointing the finger of blame squarely at the Russian Ministry of Defense for squandering one of those lives.
"Here's a pile of corpses of my men I couldn't be assed to dignify, and it's your fault one of them is here.
".
You realize the Russian military is almost 1 million strong?
Not to mention the Ukrainian military too.
And there's nearly half a million trained and zealous national guard paramilitary who are Putin fanatics, and an intelligence behemoth in the FSB that could almost certainly introduce Prigozhin to a window if they ever felt the need.
Wagner is chronically under-equipped, having lost massive amounts of its numbers (are you even sure they still have more than 10-20k?
), and they get paid because Prigozhin has wealth and assets that the government could sieze the moment he showed signs of becoming a visible threat.
There were about 300,000 soldiers in Ukraine at the start of the war and they drafted almost half a million more.
They're definitely near a million.
They have mandatory service too so there's not really a shortage of bodies yet.
They have 2 million reservists.
I don't understand why it's so hard to imagine they have this many soldiers.
They're a nation of 140+ million with a mandatory 1 year service for all men.
And yeah some shit has happened since then, but a draft boosted their numbers up and there's going to be another draft come spring.
I never said it's a threatening image, just that there's a million of them.
The Russian military most certainly has around a million active duty members.
Not every single one is a soldier holding a rifle in Ukraine.
Every male has to serve or get a waiver.
The reserves alone are over two million.
Russia has no shortage of men for the war.