While wealth is a factor for a reduced birth rate, the are a bunch more factors that also influence it.
And not only in China.
If countries want their population to reproduce more, then they need to rethink the overall factors.
30 days leave is not going to cut it if the other stuff is still unattractive and less than optimal.
Constant stress competing on the job market, uncertainty if economy holds or the employer will keep you.
In our modern world, we are nothing more than human cattle that has to perform….
Lack of free time = lack of time & energy for family and personal interests.
It‘s not uncommon to work way more than 40 hours per week.
In most cases it‘s the women who have to deal with the negative impact of motherhood (losing their career, being less flexible in their job because of the kids, losing their financial independence and so on).
Cost of living - Children are very expensive and parents usually want the best possible for their kids (Food, Rent, Electricity, Health Care, Clothes for kids, School/University for the kids, Activities for Kids and Child Care and loads more).
It doesn't matter if it's two parents working 20 hours a week each or one parent working 40.
But when two people need to work 40+ hours just to keep themselves fed, clothed, and housed, of course they can't add another person, especially one that represents another 40 hours of work a week to take care of.
Imagine having to pay a woman 6 years salary yet she hasn’t worked a single day in those 6 years simply because she has four children.
Why do you assume a government would introduce this without properly having considered these kinds of scenarios?
The fact of the matter is, a declining birthrate is in the immediate terrible for a lot of countries to be able to maintain the social security nets they have so incentivising more children is a good thing.
Maybe some people can abuse it but in most countries it is usually a very tiny minority and the postivie outcomes typically vastly outweigh the negative impact of this minority.
Good question considering the words “government” And “incompetence” Are never uttered in the same sentence.
Governments are also not known for carelessly spending their constituents’ money either.
Also, it is the state that pays, as pointed out above.
How is that any worse than the state paying pensions or the state paying healthcare?
Are you against those?
Countries, like businesses, don't work without people.