In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
His whole worldview these days is built on the idea that US empire is simultaneously capable of spectacular feats of subterfuge, but incapable of stopping their functionaries from responding "durh, yeah, that's true" when one of the most famous investigative journalists in the world calls to confirm a story.
He wasn't when he spent years pushing bullshit about Syrian chemical weapon attacks that betrayed a spectacular ignorance of chemical weapons, military activities, and even basic facts.
All based on "anonymous sources.
".
The latter part fascinates me the most.
Like John Pilger (who went down the same rabbit hole), Hersh paints America as the most competent state ever.
They do everything.
It's always the CIA, FBI, or military.
No other country or group of people has any true agency.
America is the sole axis everything revolves around.
Seymour Hersh is in that category of people who once took a stand on the right side of history, but the passage of time has exposed them as unprincipled fame-seekers.
Same as Alan Dershowitz, Ralph Nader, Glenn Greenwald, etc.
At one time they were heroes (perhaps accidentally), but they've spent too long high on their own supply.
It's something that gets clearer as you get older.
Fighting the good fight when it matters is all good and right, but insisting on being at the center of the drama decade after decade says more about your delusions of grandeur than your value system.
Good people don't do that.
Edit: oh, and this reporting is bullshit.
.
Hersh has been a shit journalist for a _long_ time, and this reporting is more of the same.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.