In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Moms for Liberty just sounds like a name for a group that thinks they should send their kids to school armed, teach their kids hate against minorities and homosexuals, and definitely…most definitely want polio to come back because vaccines are oppression.
At this point if I saw a For the Puppies Act my first thought would be "It's about nuking puppies isn't it?".
I first started paying attention to the names of bills with the Patriot Act.
The Patriot Act is fucking horrible but who's going to want that they voted against something called the Patriot Act on the their record (besides Russ Feingold)?
I really hate this naming game in politics.
I'm sure both sides are guilty of it but it always seems like when we get a group with a name like Freedom Marchers For the Freedom of Free People they turn out to be super racists that want gay people locked in cages and bills called stuff like No Hungry Children bill are actually about feeding kids to tigers and tax cuts for the rich.
Nobody is making excuses lmao I'm explaining that it's almost worse this way because they truly think what they're doing is good.
At least the ones at the bottom who are most vocal.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They're not trying to trick people, they genuinely think what they're doing is a positive thing.
Mom's for Liberty think they're fighting for freedom and the rights of americans, completely irony free.
They think that getting things done the way they would like them to be done, is freedom since it means "freedom" for them.