Religions are the result of stupidity, you guys think that stories from fantasy books are real and go nuts, meanwhile often combined with distrust in science.
It's cool if a person is able to accept a death with it, but it's not cool if this person starts to work against longevity hacks of other people.
Religious people tend to be happier, that's a value, but there are a lot of negative aspects that I experienced in such people, probably mostly because they don't think analytically.
I have heard somewhere that Ignorance is bliss.... perhaps that explains happy religious people.
Although, I think they are a bit of Fairweather happy... never personally seen a happy one when things aren't going according to their scriptures.
They tend to get all doom and gloom or fighty when that happens.
That depends on the person, one man could become more forgiving with it while another might decide they need to fight satans homosexual minions.
But that can be done with anything i mean just watch any manosphere podcast on youtube and you can see for yourself the ridiculous conclusions they come to based on scientific studies.
Edit: im aware of the negative aspects of religious people iam not claiming that religious people are somehow more morally righteous than atheists.
Or inherently better in any way.
Only claim im making is that atheism is a result of ignorance and those who are atheists should continue to look for more understanding and knowledge.
I don't think any person needs a religious book in order to improve their personality.
There are other methods without the danger to get the urge to kill people that are different, because they inferred it from a religious book.
Atheism isn't a result of ignorance, we just tend to argue with you, which is normal with such contrary viewpoints.
People will get an urge to kill those who they blame problems on and see as weird, disgusting etc.
That nature can be directed on specific groups but its inherent within human societies and needs to be actively checked so it dosent get out of control.
A person building their personality based on a religious book is the worst thing they can do after reading it.
Its meant to expand the persons knowledge, people who read it as a rule book make a huge mistake and they end up making fools of themselves.