You want to drive to work make it 15,000x more expensive than the bus.
You want to eat strawberries from another country in the off season cool if it costs 50,000$ per strawberry the market stops making strawberries for exporting.
We definitely could do a lot better, but plenty of places (like EU) have actually managed to reduce their emissions very substantially over the last decade.
In the US, mass transit is woefully underfunded while the government gives $32B for fossil fuel subsidies ($20B of which is direct).
It gets worse from an environmental standpoint as India and China have a growing middle class that wants some of the same items their Western counterparts have.
I'm not willing to make sacrifices if I'm the only one doing it and it's just symbolic and I'm denying myself things for no reason.
The reality is that the vast majority are not going to get on board until things get extreme, and by then it's going to be too late.
If you want consumer-level change, it needs to be legislated if it's going to matter.
Consumers love to drive their cars and, frankly, consume.
They hate to take action that puts that at risk.
People will gladly raise their paper straws on high, but only about two dozen countries have a carbon tax to try and meet climate goals; the US isn't one of them.
Even blue Washinon state voted against a carbon tax plan.
Your argument boils down to, "I would be more eco-friendly if it were to cost me nothing or provide me a financial incentive to do so" - which isn't a compelling for change.
The other side of the coin is that using the non-eco friendly choices should be more expensive so people use them less.
As it stands, the US government pays the fossil fuel industry $20B per year - and that's not counting tax breaks, low-interest loans, real estate rebates, and the like.
Forget about factoring in the environmental cost, but I read an estimate that gasoline would cost 3x as much without those subsidies.
The government should not be using money to make it cheaper for people to use products that are the biggest drivers of climate change.
Times are tough for a lot of people, but a carbon tax is designed to reduce consumption by raising prices.
It's supposed to suck.
But it sucks equally for everyone; the more you pollute, the more you pay.
People should be using public transport and carpooling more often.
They do.
They give rebates for renewable energy, for example, and for energy efficient products.
And carbon taxes go towards making Eco friendly options more cheaply for everyone.