In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Alternatively, the more you hear about a republican, the less enthusiastic you are to vote for them.
If all you see is an R next to their name on the ballot, but you don't know how much of a fuckup they are, maybe it's easier to vote for them?
Your comment reminds me of that guy that ran for office and his shtick was being 100% honest all the time (and he really was).
He had a small commercial where he said as much and for how little advertising he did, he made out pretty well but lost by a lot.
The next cycle he dumped more money and gave people more FaceTime.
It turned out that only seeing this dude a little bit was the perfect amount.
The more he talked the less people actually wanted him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I think it also shows that they miscalculated in where to spend their resources.
Ideally, you'd want to spend the most on the closest races, because there, you have the best chance to tip the outcomes in your favor.
This includes both races where you're slightly ahead and those where you're slightly behind.
If that's your strategy and the money you spend does nothing (and your opponent's does nothing as well, or your efforts cancel out), then you'd still expect to win about 50% of those tossup races.
If you were effective in your spending, then you'd expect to win somewhat more than half.
They lost more than half.
It's likely they were spending on long-shot races instead of tossups (probably due to overconfidence) and their money wasn't effective in changing the outcomes.