For added context: this is a pretty worrying (and illegal) development and pretty big news in Romania, they’ve attempted this in the past, and backed down after everyone, including the EU, told them off.
I think most Romanians were hoping that now that they’re no longer being manipulated by Russia, this sort of Russian-like behaviour would be a thing of the past.
I said nothing of the sort, it was just easy to deduce that you were American from your dumbass lack in considering all the facts at hand and give your stupid opinion.
If transit fees are what concerns Ukraine, they could ask and probably receive a fee waiver for the duration of the war, maybe forever.
The fees are not that high anyway.
Instead, Ukraine decides to do the same bullshit that Russia is doing: their external minister is saying nothing is happening, chilloout Bromania, while the Ukrainian department of transportation is boasting on twitter that they increased the canal's depth from 3 to at least 6 meters...
Constanta alone shipped an extra 11 million tonnes because of Ukraine's war, the total is much higher.
Odessa is also around 20mln tonnes capacity.
Izmail and Reni can be serviced by the existing Sulina canal in Romania.
ust-Dunaisk is a tiny port that is outside the delta anyway.
Yes.
And in the process harming the Danube delta, an important nature reserve mostly located on Romanian territory.
This might all still be a miscommunication, there’s really odd mixed signals coming from the Ukrainian government for now.
But it seems unlikely, given that one of their ministries was bragging about it ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯.
Can you though?
Russia is back to dragging their feet with the ship inspections for the grain corridor through the black sea.
If the ships can go through the Danube delta, they'd be much safer than using the ports further north.
And shipping is the cheapest way to transport.
Cars and rail cannot compete.
The issue right now is an environmental one, not sure what that 60 year-old bit of trivia is supposed to prove.
The article you linked describes the environmental concerns in great depth.