Truth.
But at least people acknowledging the struggles of his people, and also their ferocity in defending themselves goes a long way for moral.
Agreed, but many battles around the world are fought and no one gives a singular fuck, says allot about how much they used social media strategically and also how invested the west is in fucking Putin over, there is always the fact that they are white as well.
If Zelenskyy run away as the US proposed at the beginning of the war then its likely the Ukrainian people would not have the moral to fight as fiercely as they did.
I just hope the Russians figure out there isn't a win in it for them and take their ball and go home instead of bringing the world down with them.
I disagree with your comment.
The world buried Ukraine before the war started.
The US knew what was coming, and warned its allies and Ukraine both.
The Europeans pretty much said their farewells last time they saw Zelenskyy, as nobody believed that Ukraine could resist Russia.
The groundswell of support came after everyone realised that Ukraine will fight to the end, and that Russia is was more incompetent then anyone though.
You my good sir are reasonable, don’t get me wrong the Ukrainians and any other fellows fighting over there have my full respect, and Taiwan is a strategic place economically and geographically, so I am pretty sure the US is willing to go to war with china over it.
I just brought Taiwan as an example of a country thats nom white that gets a lot of support.
But as someone mentioned correctly its a strategic and an economic paowerhouse, so that plays a much bigger role then any race questions.
Anyways a lot to unpack here, if you are interested there is a lot information out there.
(Old) Europe was way more invested in siding with Putin at the start for example.
The fact that they are white, well maybe thats subjective, Taiwan has been getting a lot more help over the years then Ukraine, its a hard comparison to make as there are many reasons for this, but just one off the top of my head.
I also didnt mean to imply that the (old) west sided with Putin because of race.
They sided with Putin because it was convenient and there is a lot of money involved.
They get far more benefits from Putin then from Ukraine, i.e.
low energy prices for one.
I agree with you on this one.
Nobody expected mighty fearsome juggernaut Russia to get its butt kicked by Ukraine.
On paper it looked like it would be like the US going into Iraq, over in a week.
But wasn't and the myth of Russian invincibility has been shattered.
And I for one have become a strong supporter of Ukraine--I want the US and the EU to do everything they can to help Ukraine humiliate the Russians.