What they did with that show was such a disappointment.
Owl House was such an amazing show.
Not just for the representation either, although I'm happy to see it.
It was just so, so... idk, real?
I've rewatched it like 4 times now, and will probably rewatch the whole thing again before the new season releases.
My only hope is that one day, hopefully soon, we don't have to worry about a show getting canceled because the network is afraid of two people who aren't cis/straight kissing.
Not gonna lie, it is sad we couldn't have the full show, but still the second season was great, every chapter was filled with some character development, don't know if we could have gotten some different for the best or not but I'm glad we have what we have.
I just wish we could have had a full season or two of them in the human realm.
I know it kinda repeats the premise of Amphibia's story in that regard (also a great show in its own way), but I honestly don't care.
I feel robbed that we missed all those adventures and character development.
Can you imagine how touching it would have been to watch V discover her own identity?
Or to watch the coming out story for Luz?
Or hell, to watch the friendships between Hunter and Gus/Willow develop.
There is just so much that we missed or only got a taste of.
Because Boomers didn't have openly gay classmates growing up, therefore it must be a new thing the kids are doing because of politics.
Here's what I'm hoping, one day they do something like Fullmetal Alchemist where she wasn't done with the manga yet so they made a ending for it and then years later we got Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood.
That is true, also their gay classmates often dated the opposite sex and got married, so in their eyes everyone was all hetero until "politics started making gay normal".
Newer generations that grew up with openly gay friends don't bat an eye when there's one in a movie/show.
Honestly though, there are not a lot of people I know, gay/straight/whatever, that don't enjoy brunch.
Its just like such a solid meal.
Good food that can either be more breakfast or lunch, and fruity bubbly morning drinks that can get you trashed.
Its just the bees knees.