"However, suspicions that Bolsonaro may have been involved grew this week after the issuing of a warrant for the arrest of his former justice minister, Anderson Torres, for potential acts of omission.
During a search of Torres’s home in Brasília, federal police officers reportedly found a draft decree that sought to authorise an emergency intervention in Brazil’s electoral court designed to overturn the election result.Torres, who has denied wrongdoing, was arrested at Brasília airport on Saturday morning after flying back from the US where he was purportedly on holiday at the time of the attacks.
".
English is not my native language and since this is legal talk I'm translanting the best way I can from portuguese.
Article 5: Make preparations to support act of terrorism \[...\] 12 to 30 years of prison, can be reduced to 1/4 or 1/2 in accordance to the act.
Article 6: Use of resources, actives, assets, goods, rights, values, or services in a manner to support, prepare, or execute the crime of terrorism \[...\] 15 to 30 years in prison.
Article 163: Destruction, inutilization, or deterioration of something not owned.
\[...\] 6 months to 3 years in prison, and a fine equivalent to the violence caused.
In total he can be expected to have at minimum 53 years in prison and a max of 124 if guilty of all current charges.
Besides those he is also being charged with omisson for the lack of police force, allow more than 100 buses enter Brasilia, and lack of action to dissamble encampments of rioters in front of Army's Headquarters in Brasilia.
According to local news outlets before the plane landed Federal Police already waited at the airport and immedialy upon landing agents boardered the plane to arrest Anderson Torres.
Interesting here...they hate and fear communism and its "globalist revolution agenda" meanwhile they're trying to push for fascist revolutions worldwide.
Then there the systems like monarchy and fascism where what is "right" is defined exclusively by a very select few and enforced on the vast majority as "justice"(essentially "might makes right") through authoritative action.
These are systems built exclusively to serve the elite.
TLDR: No system is without the same exact vulnerability which is human corruption.
That's what derails every single system and the motive is greed and ambition.
Even the best intended public serving systems can and do fall to this sooner or later.
Tale as old as time.
I would say we more or less agree.
I am not arguing for any particular system, just that they all fall to the same root cause and to fix that would take monumental change on a global level on how we as cultural societies and communities organize and vote fairly and that doesn't take into account the very important aspect necessary for a stable democracy that is a well educated public that understands what exactly its voting on.
That kind of change is too monumental for most people and it would be heavily opposed by existing governments and ideologies.
Dictatorships are an odd one out in that it has incredible capacity for corruption and societal damage, but in very rare instances historically the dictators were in fact loyal to their people.
In Rome they had such a system that actually passed power from the senate to a single leader when the senate was gridlocked and the situation couldnt wait.
They remained dictator for a few years then would formally step down and return power to the senate.
They weren't always popular but most(to my understanding) were quite loyal to their people and to Rome.
Even the one who eventually broke the custom of returning power to the senate did both for himself and for Rome and he was extremely popular at the time with the citizens of Rome.
I'm not saying Dictatorships are a good options in any way, just that Rome had an interesting relationship with the system that was surprisingly not an utter disaster filled to the brim with tyrants like they almost always are.
If anything it just says that even the best intentioned systems can and usually do fall to corruption eventually.
Democracy is no different, especially when it's a democracy that is single mindedly fixated on money and not much else.
That money is what really runs the world and it's been that way for a very long time.
It buys, arms and supplies for armies, it builds fortifications, makes roads, bribes kings, senators, nobles and so on.
It's why climate change has been ignored, it's why new and old lands were conquered and reconquered, riches, resources and wealth to be pillaged extracted and fertile lands laborers taken.
Every form of government is vulnerable to being taken over, twisted, hollowed out and turned into a monstrosity of human engineering.
Nothing is perfect and nothing is immune to the flaws of humans.
One this is guaranteed though, if we don't get our collective shit together Fermis great filter is gonna beat our asses for the final time.
There are multiple examples of democracies around the world, some are doing okay, some not so much.
Others don't know how good they have it while others can't stop making deals with the devil and repeating the mistakes of the past.
Which why a system that concentrates all power in one central authority always descends into corruption.
Balance between many different sources of power is what works.
Communism and Fascism concentrate all power in a single party.
Libertarianism concentrates all power in the free market.
Absolute monarch.
All of them all to corruption.
Is anyone else hoping they find incriminating shit on Trump and his ilk/cronies?
Maybe even involvement with Putin or/and the Kremlin.
One of those news headlines that gets massive global attention.
Well yes, but as we are observing here in the US that too gets hollowed out and almost entirety corrupted over time(how much exactly remains to be seen, if we ever find out at all that is).
Reagan played a fairly sizable part in reopening that pandoras box.
It's a common and old joke that our politicians should be required to wear outfits that list all their sponsors like a Nascar uniform.
Hey I can hope, these types seem to always surround themselves with profoundly incompetent and quite often bafflingly stupid and entirely self-serving individuals.
Honestly every system is idealistic to some degree.
The issue with basically all systems is human corruption.
Corruption through greed, corruption through religion, corruption through favoritism, the list goes on and on.