In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If you go to /r/Conservative you'll see that they are terrified of the left, and though the left is weak, they also are dominating and powerful and they must, for the good of the nation, put this threat down no matter the cost.
(a big component...of fascism).
So let me get this straight... Because multiple GOP candidates lost, and one GOP candidate won...it proves the Democrats were cheating?
?
I am not saying there was fraud, but logic would dictate the odd GOP win would be much more suspicious.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is one of the traits of fascism.
that your opponent is both incredibly strong and incredibly weak depending on the context you choose to see it in.
Democrats have both the most sophisticated operations to steal the elections and the most inept operations.
It’s quite the warped view by conservatives.
check out this -- the 14 elements of fascism.
If you want to know and be able to defend the concept of "hey reds y'all are fascists these days."
- here's what you need:
It goes hand in hand with the idea of action for action sake, the hero that will save us from the vermin that will overtake us all.
Also, the removal of "personhood" and replacement with animals, but not just any animals - pests, specifically pests that spread disease, and/or "Swarm".
reason being -- "is it not the moral and right thing to remove these pests from our lives?!"
- make it moral to destroy the enemy with out caution or compassion.
it is moral to "cleanse".