Bout, nicknamed the “Merchant of Death,” is a former Soviet military officer serving a 25-year prison sentence in the United States on charges of conspiring to kill Americans, acquire and export anti-aircraft missiles, and provide material support to a terrorist organization.
the regimes in Russia, Iran or North Korea will continue to take western hostages and the west which believes in equal human rights and justice and such lofty ideals cannot compete with them on equal terms.
Such blackmails will continue.
They wouldn’t.
IIRC, Russia has had an American teacher locked up for a similar charge for a while now.
Could’ve at least tried to add them to the trade, but we don’t give a fuck about them because they aren’t a high profile athlete.
Edit: Seems this is a different article than I read before, and it does address the other situation.
Also for everyone saying she’s not a high profile athlete, yes she is.
Her arrest may be what raised her profile, but her profile has been high throughout negotiations.
I didn’t mean that she’s been a household name for her entire career, I meant that people know her name and story now.
If what Biden said is true, then they’re still trying to get the teacher, but Russia is holding firm.
Putin is the type of person to do something like that just to spark outrage in the US.
That doesn't make it better.
He still prioritized a celebrity and gave up a ton of leverage.
It's a really shitty deal and sends a terrible message to the nation.
Fuck, it would have been better if he didn't make the deal at all.
Why are you backtracking?
Your initial reaction was 100% correct.
We traded the merchant of death for a celebrity and didn't even get the Russians to throw in a no-name teacher.
I voted for Biden, but he needed to do better.
This is fucked up.
My point exactly.
However, the article actually explains that it’s not quite that simple, and attempts are being made, but Russia doesn’t want to release the teacher.
That's just obfuscating bullshit.
We traded the merchant of death for a celebrity and didn't even get the Russians to toss in a no-name teacher.
This is so fucking stupid, and Whelan's family should be pissed.
I hate the fact that this won't happen.
I hate the fact that she was only freed because she is a celebrity.
I hate the fact that this stupid trade didn't even include a no-name teacher.
It's so fucking stupid, all of it.