In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
As someone effected by this legislation the method with which this was passed was very frustrating.
Whether or not you agree with the bill, the fact this was started on Friday at midnight by attaching a gun control bill to a amusement park ride safety bill that failed to be voted on because they forgot to ask the amusement park safety bills sponsor if he was okay with that, so he refused to put it to a vote.
Then attaching it to a women's heath bill, then ultimately to a bill that adjusted the responsibilities of public insurance adjusters before it passed the senate.
Which was brought up late in the day tuseday with public input, limited to less than 5 min per witness to speak on the matterbeforethe vote was held.
With illinois witness slips for the changes at a ratio of 100:1 in opposition on less than 24hrs notice.
This is a big deal and makes felons of thousands of responsible Illinoisians while doing nothing to statistically reduce gun crime.
Because Cook county where most of the gun crime in the state occurs has an assault weapon ban.
Which they do not enforce, other than to bring them as changes to be dropped as part of a plea deal from mostly poor minorities who can't afford a legal team to challenge the ban.
There are grandfather clauses to protect current owners, but with registration.
As we saw with deferred action for childhood arrivals, registration can lead to confiscation or in DACA's case deportation, on the whim of the ruling party.
Thankfully there was mass outcry against deportation of dreamers, and enough resistance from authorities that would not comply which hamppered the push to deport individual who had done what they thought was right and complied with government registration.
History clearly shows that registration is the first step to confiscation.
Australia, UK, New Zeland, and Canada are just some of the latest.
All of these began with registration and then the governments started picking and choosing what firearms are allowed under the threat of imprisonment because they had a list.
Then they picked and choosed more and more until nothing was left.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Don't forget Canada.
They showed that all those promises about not going after peoples rifles and especially the hunting rifles, didn't mean crap several years down the line.
5.56 caliber, which makes up the vast majority of AR style rifles, is typically considered too weak for medium game hunting (deer, elk, etc...).
It's an intermediate low caliber powered round.
Most hunting rounds like .308 and 30-06 are far, far higher in muzzle energy.
A 5.56 might not even leave an exit wound in a deer, but a 30-06 will blow a baseball to melon sized wound out the back side.
This won't ruin meat when shot in the correct location, but ensures a clean and ethical kill.
Wounding animals with a 5.56 round is unethical.
But this law does not comply with the "common use" test in Helller.
Heller (2008), the U.S. Supreme Court held that the Second Amendment protects “arms 'in common use at the time' for lawful purposes like self-defense” and arms that are “typically possessed by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes.” Such arms are “chosen by American society,” not the government.