In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
There is an article that further states the RR attached a few grain cars to the train so that they could further skirt the regulation of notifying local officials of the true toxic commitment passing through their backyards.
It's much, much more than just the train derailment.
Why can’t we go straight to the source like the man who signs my paycheck and tell him that he is an a hole directly?
Why do I look like a crazy person for raging about my health and safety and come off combative for wanting to live?
It’s all about controlling the masses.
At the end of the day each and every single one of us are teaching our younger generations to be submissive literally so they can live.
An outside observer might take this as a result of the ‘socialization of corporate law’, but it’s actually the exact opposite.
The founding fathers were incredibly wary of being exploited by corporations (slave owners being scared of exploitation, go figure), and therefore approved very few corporations initially.
I’m not sure what you’re getting at but corporations are in essence state entities because a corporate charter has to be filed with and improved by a state.
However, the industrialization and the Civil War greatly enriched what corporations did exist and they used this money to expand their power including in the 1886 SC case Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad which created the precedent of corporations being people and thus being allowed constitutional protections.
Shit has rolled down hill ever since.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Screw your apology.
Get out your wallets and clean up the mess you created.
Regulations were put in place to prevent this toxic disaster.
People's lives are at stake.
Remember Love Canal.
They need to force the RR to clean the site up.
Again who backs their campaigns.
Corporate.
Corporate owns the RR.
Maybe if they self regulated and listened to staff this all could have been avoided.