In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yeah, this is all about the right-wing narrative that "we're in an immigrant crisis" that Democratic leaders are "letting happen" or some such.
"I mean, Mary and Joseph really should have pulled themselves up by the bootstraps.
Jesus could have been born in a house if they weren't spending their money on all those expensive lattes in Nazareth!
".
Supply Side Jesus^TM only helps those who help themselves.
Those refugees should have pulled themselves up by the bootstraps and not been born in an unstable country if they wanted to live in America!
Of course, if they really believed that then they would send them to churches to 'show up' the Dems, but they're only interested in hurting people for entertainment.
Meanwhile they are dealing with massive hikes on power bills and outages at the same time while Abott spends money and time on people they don't even consider human.
Fuckin red voters got what they wanted I guess.
Own the libs at any cost.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's gonna be the new normal for a lot of areas as climate change gets worse.
States with infrastructure that can't handle severe weather and politicians who refuse to improve it are going to see a lot of power outages and loss of potable water in the future.
I follow some mutual aid/"prepper" groups on social media (mostly just simple off the grid stuff to lower carbon footprints) and someone posted a comment once to the effect of "if you're a survivalist who stockpiles guns but can't grow a tomato, you're not a prepper, you just fantasize about murder.
".