In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
You might want to tune your sarcasm detector, I thought it was apparent enough to not need an /s given the post I was responding to was clear satire.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
That's why they've already moved on to anti-trans panic now.
First it was illegal immigrants are going to kill you, then it was cancel culture, then it was woke CRT, now it's they want to turn your kids trans.
Who knows what the next totally invented outrage will be, but I promise you it'll be just as dumb as all the others.
No, what you got here is a black woman from NJ, that's a Democrat, remember black women made damn sure Known Racist Trump got one term we removed his racist ass.
74 million voted for known racist Trump and racism that's a lot of folks voting for a racist and racism.
We can protect ourselves now thanks to our ancestors they had to take shit and they did so we don't have to and we most certainly don't now we vote.
I as a black woman have so much respect for the white Democrats they stand with black folks.
The white Democrats that voted for being inclusive I called that my party.
And I think it best not to make assumptions of people's race without knowing them, I'm a quarter black and quarter Mexican.
I've also never voted for Trump or any MAGA candidate.
All I know is the GOP latched on hard to anti-trans panic here in Michigan and got blown out.
They even tried to make Prop 3, the one about abortion rights, all about trans panic because they knew they couldn't win on the merits.
The anti-trans people hyperfocused on the inclusion of the word "sterilization."
To normal, non-crazy people, this is clearly talking about something like tube-tying.
You know, things related to pregnancy.
They also argued, incorrectly, that by saying "individual" instead of "adult," it meant parental consent no longer existed somehow.
So they took those two things and turned it into "this means kinds can get puberty-blockers and other gender-affirming drugs which would sterilize them without parents even knowing!"
That was pretty much their top argument against the proposal and it's as crazy as it sounds.