Building up criminal cases across multiple countries does have an effect in the long run.
Literal mountains of legal action that can hit individuals and organizations in the perpetrating country.
Think about all the grievances levied between Ukraine, Syria, Georgia, and even Belarus as Russian occupation there intensifies.
When the Russian house of cards collapses the lawyers are going to bring in more restitution without having to use a single bullet m.
Justice will never achieved , and that's why sending weapons /help to Ukraine is the best way to achieve justice not just for Ukraine but for the whole Eastern Europe.
What's happening in Ukraine and inside Russia is equally important.
A country like Russia, even if it has nukes, requires a certain reputation in diplomacy and military means in order to shield it from things like lawsuits over war crimes.
Russia right now has committed something like 85% of its' armed forces into the meat grinder in Ukraine w/ nothing of value to show for it.
They've depleted a Cold War stockpile of weapons that was once thought bottomless to the point where they're buying ammunition from North Korea, their diplomats are being thrown out of every country in Europe, their strategic partners are abandoning agreements or publicly distancing themselves from Russian policies, and international sanctions are reducing the Russian economy to a point that even civilians are feeling the burn.
Furthermore Russia is having to pull it's forces from domestic hotspots and put them in Ukraine just to that they can maintain a slow losing effort over a quick losing effort which is causing issues in the Russian States who have old grievances going back to the Soviet days that they never forgot.
Russian Oblasts are the subjects of retaliatory strikes by the Ukrainians who have no issues attacking strictly military targets in the face of terror attacks on their civilians, and Russia by contrast has now been recognized as the monster of nations it's quietly made itself in the better part of the past 20 years as it continually encroached on its' neighbors w/ brutality as its' chief tool.
Basically the victims file grievances with their government, the government investigates, presents their arguments to the world's courts, and from there international pressure forces the perpetrating country to make restitution.
Nuremberg is probably the best example of how these legal issues can help victims reach resolution.
Once there's a legal precedence set it picks up steam.
What this all amounts to is a country becoming so porous that to call it Swiss Cheese would be understating its' position.
The pressure will eventually mount so high on the Russian government that they'll be forced to hand over people that the international courts are seeking as suspects in atrocities or risk even more ruination.
The war and it's losses for the Russians is just the beginning.
A military defeat in Ukraine has kickstarted a great reckoning on the Russian World as they know it.
For example, after the Bucha massacre the Ukrainian government in conjunction with several European criminal investigation organizations reviewed all the crimes committed, documented it all, and then the governments bump up the cases to the highest courts for recognition.
"Overall, the prosecution called 37 witnesses compared to the defense's 83, not including 19 defendants who testified on their own behalf.
[85] The prosecution examined 110,000 captured German documents[40] and entered 4,600 into evidence,[87] along with 30 kilometres (19 mi) of film and 25,000 photographs.
[88]".