This article is bs and even the source says it's unverified.
The US State Dept has had Russia on the Do Not Travel list since February 2022 and has continually said to depart immediately.
Even the quote from the Embassy misunderstands how these warnings work:
""U.S. citizens residing or travelling in Russia should depart immediately," the U.S. embassy in Moscow said.
"Exercise increased caution due to the risk of wrongful detentions.
".
Edit: the advisory was just updated today, though they are no major changes to the status.
The main change is a removal of COVID as a concern.
That Excercise Increased Caution part is less of a concern; that's the 2nd lowest level of concern (there are 4 levels, with Do Not Travel being the highest), but the Do Not Travel reasons are actually listed before that.
Here's the full text of the current advisory:
It's possible the embassy sent out an email reminding US citizens of this information but it has not changed.
The last update to the advisory was in October and it was kept at Do Not Travel at that point.
My welcome to Russia in 2016 was a super hot waitress sitting down at my table and writing her number on my bill without prompting.
IIRC, it was on the Do not travel list even before that.
I went in November 2022 and I remember it was on Do Not Travel even then.
Overall the US State Department is too nervous to take seriously- and Russia is more normal than most redditors could imagine.
Don't buy into the us vs. them retioric.
You still have more interests in common with the average Russian citizen than you do with the average politician in your country.
Do not travel to Russia due to the unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine by Russian military forces, the potential for harassment against U.S. citizens by Russian government security officials, the singling out of U.S. citizens in Russia by Russian government security officials including for detention, the arbitrary enforcement of local law, limited flights into and out of Russia, the Embassy’s limited ability to assist U.S. citizens in Russia, COVID-19-related restrictions, and terrorism.
U.S. citizens residing or travelling in Russia should depart Russia immediately.
Exercise increased caution due to wrongful detentions.
It was updated slightly today.
Still Do Not Travel and leave immediately.
These warnings are reissued periodically with minor or sometimes no changes.
Some news outlet seems to think this is new information because they haven’t been following it.