In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“It’s not my desire to elect individuals that would discriminate against people based on those characteristics, but I do believe there’s a biblical model for human sexuality,” [Tanner Di Bella] said.
So their "playbook" is to throw even more money into the races to recruit, train, and fund candidates with a hard biblical lean:
I don't think dems will be ready for 2024, and a large part of that is them ignoring the alarming gains the republicans made in blue states and cities.
Here in Los Angeles, we have a very loud contingent of the DSA that is fighting to allow homeless encampments to be attached to schools - again.
It was a huge fight to get the law passed the first time so that a homeless encampment would be forced to move 500 feet away from a school and now they want to undo that.
These are poison pills and they are allowed to operate with impunity.
They won't force a win overnight but the damage is done over time.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Dems are patting themselves on the back for managing to get an actual qualified person elected in PA over Dr. Freakin Oz.
And it wasn't a blow out.
These schoolboard races aren't about convincing people to vote GOP.
It's about getting people to vote against Dems.
We also had the head of the teachers union of LA say it was only rich white parents that wanted the kids back in school.
Republicans original plan was to hammer away at parents by making them afraid of the changes in school curriculum and angry about the shut downs.
Then abortion became illegal and the plan went to shit since parents tend to worry more about their kids being forced to carry a baby to term.
I hope the far left can cool it for 2 years with the insane things so Fox doesn't have free content to rile the base up with.
You can't have one wing of the party push for meth heads to live attached to a playground and then ask you to trust their candidate for schoolboard.