From Putin's perspective why not?
Every Russian that dies is a little bit more time he gets to hold onto power.
It'll wreck the country for generations, but Putin personal-gain move is to sell out every last drop of his country to buy himself another day.
If Putin loses then he dies.
If Putin continues everyone else dies.
He will continue without end as long as his people let him keep murdering their children for a a depraved war that Russia already lost.
That's being repeated everywhere but who is going to do it?
There is no real opposition in the country.
Everyone around him is pro-war and not powerful enough on their own.
He routinely kills anyone that might challenge him.
The Russian people either strongly support Putin or are too cowardly to do anything about it.
Russian culture is cynical.
They throw up their hands and just accept as fact that they can't control their political class, accept any hardships that hit them, and only look out for themselves.
That's what happens in all authoritarian societies but Russia has made an art form out of it.
There is zero chance of a popular uprising.
Putin could stop this at any time and still remain in power.
All he needs is an excuse to blame which isn't him and the Russian people will buy into it.
He won't stop because of his pride and this delusional Russian view that Russia is this major world power when it clearly is not other than having nuclear weapons.
It makes him look weak on the international stage.
We only hear about some of it.
Imagine the things we don't know.
Putin has been planning this for a really long time.
That much is evident.
I recently read Accidental Superpower, and it was written mid 2010s.
The author said that Russia would move on Ukraine in full no later than 2022.
Reading that in 2023 made my jaw drop.
Putin chose this path long ago.
He could have chosen prosperity and stability for his country but instead chose fascism.
Putin will never provide those good things for his people, he needs the chaos, needs them fraught with fear and confusion, and he needs a sharp pointy stick to ensure compliance.
The worse things get at home, the better for him as long as he can keep control.
To control, he needs to win the war decisively.
Thats not looking very likely.
That said, Putin is all in.
His population is not really a threat at this time in my estimation.
The numbers needed would be overwhelming and extremely difficult to coordinate without detection.
People know what happens to those who oppose him and feel powerless.
There's alot of support for the war, but for the ones who don't support it, they have two choices.
Stay quiet, feed their families, wait for change, or they can publicly and directly oppose Putin.
Simple as that.
I can see a scenario where a few of Putins inner circle decide they want off this ride.
They could conspire rather quietly and without detection and formulate a plan.
If the population saw this happening, the pitchforks may come out at that point.
The range of outcomes is as vast as it is consequential for the entire world.
There could be swans of all colors lurking around the corner, not just in 2023, but beyond.