Simply because of the paper work and beaurocracy required to perform a clinical trial.
Therefore the cosmetic industry run "volunteer studies".
They still require ethics etc.
but you can set up your own ethics committee and pass off your own experimental protocols.
The volunteers I worked with on some volunteer studies did get compensated.
No where near the level of a clinical trial but some monetary value.
The customer of one study I did required video diaries and provided cameras which the participants could keep if they completed the study.
in the phase I clinical trials of antidepressants where healthy people became suicidal, those studies were never published and antidepressant suicide were put as placebo suicide.
These companies do some really messed up things.
In non-healthy trials i.e.
those where the volunteer needs to have a certain condition, they're looking for a cure.
I helped run an ance study where participants required a certain grade of acne (on the Leeds acne scale.
Bristol got stool, Glasgow got coma, Liverpool had palleative care pathways.
Leeds is known for acne.)
The treatment was so successful for one candidate they really didn't want to return the device.
The non publication of adverse results or even results where nothing happened is a problem across science and engineering.
How much research has been funded to look at something which has already been looked at?
Someone consenting to something is always better than someone being forced to do it, though.
In this case at least, the human would want to do it.
Your dogs probably wouldn’t.
It seems silly to reduce the concept of animal testing to a matter of consent.
Animals certainly didn't consent to have their genitals surgically removed, yet it's a commonly mandated procedure.
Intrinsically the life of a human is worth infinitely more than the life of an animal, and it should be reflected in the way we produce products for humans.
There’s a difference between forcing an animal to do something beneficial to them and forcing them to do something harmful to them for one’s own gain.
And the only reason we think humans are worth more than non-human animals is because we’re humans.
Non-human animals are not “intrinsically” less worthy of life; we’re just wired to value our own kind above another.
It was a discussion about cosmetics trials; I was not referring to clinical trials.
However, it is worth noting that the results of animal-tested clinical trials are often unreliable because, remarkably, mice and humans operate in different ways.
I see your point, though.
Lab grown skin for testing is an option.
It's good for certain tests but incredibly expensive.
There are other in vitro tests which can be done which are cheaper but only suitable for some information.
I used to manage a contract research lab for this kind of thing where we grew in vitro skin models.
There are millions of untested compounds with unknown effects.
They might offer a use for acne or psoriasis which can have huge effects on people's mental health.
They should be tested, in a responsible manner which doesn't directly involve animals.