Build roads out of recycled material, capable of storing and transmitting kinetic energy as well as controlling and distributing water levels appropriately to the given environment?
Even if every road in the country is jam-packed solid 24/7 (or, equally, completely empty), you wouldn't be able to build a road and claim that it wouldn't increase the number of cars on the road.
That one is impossible to do.
It means no new roads will ever be built, if they were to stick to that.
Also read the fucking article, they evem talk about a dozen projects that got the green light despite those new rules.
Public transport is shit for getting to work until you live in the expensive areas close to public transport and you work in the expensive areas close to public transport.
I drive everywhere and avoid Central London entirely (because you can't drive there, not sensibly) and the only time I ever use if is if I have to go into Central London (e.g.
last time was to an embassy and to a solicitors).
I'll trot out the same example I used last year and during COVID when people said the same.
Check my history for the full details.
And yet the car... literally 10 minutes in the car, door to door, no walking.
That's a journey entirely inside the M25 for reference.
The quicker method by public transport: 2 hours, involving 40 minutes of walking, multiple changes (bus, train, bus, etc.
), and precisely ONE journey that - with absolutely perfect precision timing on EVERYONE'S behalf - could get me to work for 8am when I start.
Literally one.
There are no earlier buses that do it, and the later ones either don't connect or cannot connect to get me there in time.
On the way home it would be worse and I would be effectively stranded if a bus breaks down or a traffic jam occurs.
Also, that's 80 minutes of nothing but WALKING every day, so I can't take anything of weight with me.
And if they greenlit projects... then they have lied about the requirement I pointed out.
I'm sure their paper SAYS it will not encourage more drivers, but taking 50 drivers off the road to run one bus instead (never gonna happen) just made space for 40+ more drivers and the roads nicer to drive for all drivers.
Unless they built a new bus-only road going from popular destination to popular destination, which is quite possibly the most wasteful, expensive and non-green thing you can do.
Take it from someone who lived in an area with the idea "if you don't build it, they won't come"...they WILL come and your traffic system will not be able to handle it and you'll spend 2x as long (and 3x the money) trying to adjust than if you'd just f-ing built it in the first place.
No one is going to buy a car and drive it on the roads so that those bigger roads don't feel lonely.
The old "if we had teleporters we wouldn't need roads" argument.
I've never been a fan of this method of invention supertechnology, or it's flipside "force everyone to live in cities" which is distinctly and unabashedly authoritarian.
So you're saying if you build a road for more efficient travel from A to B, people will go buy a car just to drive on that road?
Do your really think a significant number of people have that much unallocated cash lying around?
I think it's a fair point to argue that a lack of roads suppresses and keeps from recognition of a need (travel), and that, with roads, that need is now able to be met, which might result in more cars.
But now you've acknowledged that you're directly suppressing the people's needs, which does not seem to be a proper function of government.
"But it's for your own good" is the underlying wording of every tyrant exerting their tyranny upon an unwilling populace.
And, let's be fair, the planet has undergone massive asteroid impacts, a reducing atmosphere, and many other trials.
If it isn't dead yet, we're certainly not going to "kill a planet" ffs.
There are some good and solid arguments to be made on this topic but you haven't come near any of them, instead resorting to the "I'll punish you till you do as I say" approach.
Funny that there's so little effort into making mass transit simply more convenient and a naturally viable alternative, and instead resort to punishing private transport in a blatant admission that they have no damned clue how to make mass transit desirable but simply a "less punished alternative.
".