On the eve of the anniversary of the full-scale and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops, I have summarized the political platform of mine and, hopefully, of many other decent people.
Russia is a vast country with a shrinking population and dying out rural areas.
Imperialism and the urge to seize territory is the most harmful and destructive path.
Once again, the Russian government is destroying our future with its own hands just in order to make our country look bigger on the map.
But Russia is big enough as it is.
Our objective should be preserving our people and developing what we have in abundance.
Fantastic proposals, I did not expect much other than the same PR mantras, but I was actually surprised with it, especially with this one:
This is nonsense.
For example, Belarus is also involved in the war against Ukraine.
Does this mean that the Belarusians also have an imperial mindset?
No, they merely also have a dictator in power.
There will always be people with imperial views in Russia, just like in any other country with historical preconditions for this, but they are far from being the majority.
There is no reason to weep and wail about it.
Such people should be defeated in elections, just as both right-wing and left-wing radicals get defeated in developed countries.
This one should go to the redditors who want to see Russia as an idea be eliminated and partitioned between various artificial states that are 90% ethnic Russian.
If reddit existed in 1944, redditors would also be clamoring for the to partition Germany, because given what Putin Nazism did to Russia Germany, Russians Germans as a country were seen as blood-hungry, imperialistic, and warmongering by nature, so their nationhood deserves to be permanently destroyed, so that they won't be a threat ever again.
80 years on, Germany was not partitioned, and is not a genocidal, warmongering dictatorship, but one of the most developed and advanced democratic countries in the world, believing that certain human ethnic groups are violent by nature, and therefore their home country deserves to be eliminated sets a very terrible precedent, Russia needs to be freed from Putin and his oligarchs, not destroyed as if real life is a Hearts of Iron 4 match.
Wanting Russia to be destroyed only helps Russian propaganda's claims that this is an existential war, and that if Putin loses his imperialist masturbatory fantasies in Ukraine, Russia will become extinct.
The difference is that Germany in 1918 did not had the largest nuclear arsenal in the world, nor was the German Empire occupied during WW1, you need some kind of military occupation and total collapse of government and social services in order for an entire country to be partitioned.
Additionally, partitioning states is not an easy task, as if you're playing a Paradox Plaza game where you can artificially draw borders on a map, and expect it to be followed in real life, Russia is 80% ethnic Russian, with the exception of some Caucasus republics, all minority ethnic republics are majority ethnic Russian, or 40% Russian.
See how bloody and devastating the partition of India, and the dissolution of Yugoslavia were, partitioning the world's largest country with the largest nuclear arsenal is not a good way to commit suicide.
I don't want to see partitioned but I would be fine with Russia disintegrating into separate states if it can't reform into a modern, peaceful democracy.
Something that redditors are unaware is that except for the Caucasus Muslim republics, even the minority republics of the country are still majority ethnic Russian, or around 40% Russian, and they are furthermore geographically unable to function as independent states (completely landlocked by Russia or bordering China, located in permafrost), are heavily dependent on the rest of Russia for supplies, and even though they might despise Putin and his mafia, they still consider themselves to be Russians, as much as how I despise Bolsonaro, but I am still a Brazilian.
This reminds me of a comment of some clueless redditor who proposed giving all of Karelia back to Finland, so a Finnish user responded to him with a "hell no", since the place is 86.4% ethnic Russian, is a heavily poor and underdeveloped place that will offer nothing to Finland but drain its economy, and only fringe Far-Right Finnish Ultra-Nationalists support invading and annexing another country's territory.... ya know, like what Russia is doing right now.
He is displaying a photo of terrorists (white terrorists if race is important to you) as an example of a modern threat just 4 years after the .
There's nothing in that video that would make him a white supremacist.
1.
President Putin has unleashed an unjust war of aggression against Ukraine under ridiculous pretexts.
He is desperately trying to make this a "people's war," seeking to turn all Russian citizens into his accomplices, but his attempts are failing.
There are almost no volunteers for this war, so Putin's army has to rely on convicts and forcibly mobilized people.
you’re right, hes an ethno-nationalist.
still, generalizing muslims as insects is a slippery slope.
a great thread on how Navalny promotes hate speech/extremist agendas which extends against ukrainians and georgians.
He stated that it was impossible to reverse the annexation in the foreseeable future, but .
He just had to accept it because he had no choice.
But his stance on it remains the same as back then.
2.
The real reasons for this war are the political and economic problems within Russia, Putin's desire to hold on to power at any cost, and his obsession with his own historical legacy.
He wants to go down in history as "the conqueror tsar" and "the collector of lands.
".
3.
Tens of thousands of innocent Ukrainians have been murdered, and pain and suffering has befallen millions more.
War crimes have been committed.
Ukrainian cities and infrastructure have been destroyed.