And when the French strike, you know it's gonna be a real strike!
Not this disempowered and regulated shit many other countries, including my own, in Europe try to sell as 'strikes'.
>TotalEnergies' chief executive Patrick Pouyanne said one day of strikes and protests will not disrupt refinery operations, but this could change if the strikes were to last.
There are two factors at play, first is there aren’t enough younger people to pay into the system and the second is that people are living longer than when they set the pension amounts.
Well this is a complicated situation though because in one hand pension is great as it takes care of the elderly population, on the other hand if pension is a significant portion of your gdp then in essence you are paying the older generation with the future of the younger generation and for a country that is facing natural population decline it puts more pressure on the younger population.
I don't know what the solution to such a problem would be but it is one that we need to figure out as more and more countries will have to wrestle with the same question.
One more problem that comes up in this is that if a country is seeing a natural population decline then the interests of the older population have a higher representation than the interests of the younger population.
People are often under the impression that they’re just getting out what they put in (like a savings account), but in many cases they’re taking out more than they put in.
Another problem that might be more specific to the US is that social security was intended to be a portion of your retirement income, not your entire retirement plan.
We also have too many people that end up at retirement and social security is their only source of income so there’s intense pressure not to cut benefits in any way.
Not that I’m saying that we shouldn’t tax the rich more but everyone that thinks the gov should be doing more is already calling for taxing the rich.
Sooner or later you can’t just tax the rich to pay for stuff.
Then what?
This is an old problem.
People have been talking about SS becoming insolvent for at least 30 years of my life so it’s not about low paying jobs or anything that people are dealing with today.
Again, I am not defending the rich and I’m not saying we shouldn’t tax them.
What I’m saying is that we can’t tax them enough to pay for all of the things people say we should tax the rich to fund.
Social security was conceived of at a time when children outnumbered old people and it was set up to capitalize on that difference.
Now old people outnumber young people and the system can’t work with more people taking money out than there are people putting money in.
The last point is what infuriates me that governments try to keep up a facade and don't admit to such things more candidly, i mean the writing was on the wall for years of some conversation on this was encouraged among the public i belive people would have arrived at some consensus on a compromise.
How do you tax wealth unless it's realised for example Jeff Bezos does not have such high wealth because he has billions in cash he has such high wealth because he owns 10% of Amazon and as the valuation of Amazon (the amount of money people are willing to pay to own Amazon) increases his wealth increases but unless that wealth is converted to income there is nothing to tax.
What you are proposing works, i am not saying that having high marginal tax rates do not work (Netherlands is an example) but it would not solve wealth inequality, what it would do is it can increase the quality of life of the poorest which is extremely important for us to do.
On a side not I don't understand why these are even talking points in the United States because for the past 60-70 years US economists have been recommending everyone else to implement universal healthcare, get rid of useless spending on subsidies, build infrastructure, give affordable connectivity (public transport), give access to affordable education, and have a deciplined fiscal policy because it works in increasing the productivity of an economy and test these are talking points with polarization in the US.
Democrats want to tax the rich and make a bunch of silent changes (slowly inching up retirement age, increasing withholdings, etc) to hide the fact that the premise social security was built on is broken when there are more older people than younger people.
Republicans want to privatize social security and hand you a lump sum check and tell you to invest it in the stock market and hope for the best, while gutting benefits.
Become a postman, cop, city worker, park ranger, etc at 38 and do another 20 years to be able to get a full pension.
I had a relative (not a vet) who worked for the city for 20 and the state for 20 and used to bitch and moan about how she hated gov workers because all they did was mooch off taxpayers collecting benefits .
.
.
WHILE SHE WAS LIVING OFF TWO GOVERNMENT PENSIONS LOL.
So, first you had a program that was created to work when they expected every new generation to be larger than the previous one, but also, people figured the gov was going to take care of them in retirement and didn’t save.
First, begin educating young people on saving for retirement.
And a big part of that is getting people in the mindset that social security shouldn’t be more than X% of your retirement plan and show them how to fill in the gap between cost of living and social security.
Second, start pushing benefits out for people who haven’t entered the workforce yet.
It’s 62 now, move it to 62.5 for 5 years, 63 for the next 5 years, 63.5 for the next 5 and so on.
They need to adjust the age so that everyone gets benefits and we don’t need to tax more to keep paying for social security because that places too much burden in the younger generations.
You can’t tax the rich your way out of this.