In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
And the most hilarious/awful part is the anatomy books are considered “sexual” so all medical text books with diagrams or images of naked bodies are kept locked up in a separate floor of the library so that only med students with special access can see them.
If you want to leave campus you have to bring an “adult” chaperone to make sure you aren’t sneaking off to be alone with the opposite sex.
My mom made me tour this college.
She thought it would be a nice “normal” Christian college but it is actually insane.
Men and women cannot share the glass elevators together and have to ride separately, they almost didn’t allow my dad in the same elevator with us but because it was for a tour and he was my father apparently that was acceptable.
It’s wild how controlling this school is and I can’t believe anyone would go here, so I’m not at all surprised by this article and knew exactly which college it was before I even looked at the name.
I read their student handbook and code of conduct and holy shit talk about indoctrination.
Women are only allowed to wear pants in the dormitory room or for rock climbing.
They specify what kind of music the students can listen to on and off campus.
Women have to be fully clothed in the pool, like have to wear shorts and a tshirt over their swimsuit no matter how modest.
Men and women are not allowed in the pool at the same time either and have alternate days.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yep That was the craziest part to me, is how controlling they are about what you do off campus.
Like I kinda get having a strict code of conduct when you are on campus but controlling what grown adults do off campus??
Holy hell.
Lol it was actually worth it to see how crazy of a school it was and I’ll never forget seeing how truly batshit fundamentalists can get.
My parents are pretty damn conservative and even they were disturbed after the tour.
There are at least 100 million Republicans.
If they thought PCC was an example to be imitated, most private schools would be like PCC.
Stop shadowboxing and exagerrating threats.