Wow, this hits home.
I lived in Taichung for 4 years about a decade ago.
I've actually been to this bar a few times, but never had issues there.
There is definitely a weird vibe in Taichung bars, for some reason.
I always heard stories about gangsters taking offence that some white guy had tried to dance with one of their girlfriends and beating the hell out of every foreigner in the bar as a result.
"White guys cause problems" might be the other side of the story, though.
I doubt the bar will be able to get away with this for long.
The bar itself said it had inadequate security, so that's an easy problem to fix.
People of all races can cause trouble when drunk.
Are they saying black American males are welcome, but not white.
What about Hispanic male Americans?
This is no different than a racist in the US doing something that 99.999% of the American population finds deplorable.
This isn't good PR for a country that relies on Western defence agreements.
It's also clearly illegal, so a weird policy.
I lived in Taiwan for years and never encountered a bar with a policy like this.
It's an exception, not the rule, which is why it's making the news.
I mean, really?
This is a single bar.
It's not like the government of Taiwan enacted a policy to discriminate against Westerners.
Would you suggest that TSMC stop selling chips to US companies on the basis that there have been ignorant racists in the US who have said nasty things to Taiwanese?
Finally, you should know that Taiwan doesn't have any real "defense agreements" with any Western country.
The US Taiwan Relations Act has provisions for helping ensure that Taiwan has adequate means to defend itself, but does not obligate the US to defend Taiwan directly.
I'm not sure this implication is actually there.
The quoted phrase talks about bad PR, which could be true if this was actually tolerated by the Taiwanese media and government (the reporting in this article suggests that it won't be).
Ultimately, people outside of Taiwan want ties with Taiwan because of a sense of shared values, so PR is actually very important even if it doesn't change any moral duty to help Taiwanese people defend themselves.
If a nightclub in the US said "we are not allowing Asian / Hispanic males into our clubs because of safety concerns", it would absolutely make it onto mainstream news.
There's always a difference between an individual doing something and a corporation making a formal policy.
If this happened, would Asian and Hispanic males make comments alluding to how this is bad PR for the US in light of the fact that the US relies on Asian and Hispanic countries to produce so much of its consumer goods?
Take it as a good sign that Taiwan has a media culture that thinks this story is noteworthy.
It's more evidence of its cultural similarities to many Western countries where this sort of behaviour would also be highlighted.
It's one thing to raise the issue of the US defense of Taiwan in light of, say, Taiwan's paltry defense spending or (previously laughable) military service requirement.