In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
What did California ever do for me besides provide an environment where I can prosper and a rising home value which allows me to move to many other states with a huge cost of living drop?
I live in a democracy, where if I don't like how something is being done, I can fucking change it, and that's the fucking point.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Fucking do it, then!
Fuck.
If it’s such a liberal hellscape here, leave.
I’m so sick of it.
But I think, deep down, they know they’re better off here than fucking Kansas or some other red state “utopia,” but would never admit it, because they always come up with an excuse; first it was “We’ll move when our daughter graduates.” That was five years ago.
“We’ll move when the election is done.” That was two years ago.
“We’ll move when he retires.” That’s tentatively five years from now.
I’m so sick of it, and I’m glad I don’t have to be around them anymore, but diehard California Republicans/MAGA really are a unique breed of troglodyte to both benefit from living here while thinking that they ever have a chance of getting California to turn red.
This wannabe lawmaker does not see the need to make any changes to any laws or recognize anything in the country that can stand to be improved.
I think the leftists also put society above the individual, even moreso than liberals.
They typically want the needs of society to dictate what individuals are allowed to do and support even more extreme measures of control and restrictions on individuals when it comes to their obligations to society.
If taken to the ideological extreme you would end up with socialism where society would get to dictate even more of how people live their lives.
The ones who want to be able to legally marry 14 year olds don't want people twice their age voting.
Being an American earns you the right to change America.
Getting knocked in the head repeatedly while running around with a ball doesn't earn you any more of a right to change America than anyone else you stupid ignorant motherfucker.
"They don't know that the grass is not greener on the other side," Walker responded.
"They think there's somewhere better, and if they know another place that's better than the United States of America, my thing is, why don't you go there or tell me, let me know who that is, because I can tell them right now, there's not.
".