In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It's ironic how the Trump cult conveniently overlooks how Jared Kushner received billions from Saudi Arabia, the same country they demonize, yet they obsess over the Biden laptop.
The double standard is glaringly obvious.
When the Franken stuff happened I defended him and got demonized by other liberals for it.
That bullshit was because of liberals and not conservatives.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Fair enough.
I’m just responding to the numerous claims in this thread saying “conservatives demanded” (paraphrasing) his removal.
In my memory, it was mostly liberals demanding it.
It seems disingenuous to me because the same group that demanded his resignation are now complaining he resigned and claiming it was different group that called for it.
I remember it all well because at the time I felt it was somewhat blown out of proportion and thought the good he could do going forward outweighed the wrong he possibly did in the past.
At the time it made me a pariah in the liberal community, so it frustrates me now too see some people the opposite happened.
The whole Franken controversy was ginned up by a Fox News contributor and promoted there first.
If anyone were concerned with equality, Leeann Tweeden would have also faced backlash for forcibly kissing random soldiers on the USO trip she was on with Franken where he "forcibly kissed" her as a scripted part of a performance they did together.
She was the one who actually engaged in the behavior she was accusing him of, which was a very clear double standard.
It was also exactly the kind of setup women are always accused of engaging in whenever a rightwing figure (like Kavanaugh) gets accused of inappropriate behavior, except that I believe that was projection for behavior the right is all too willing to engage in.
Franken had proven himself to be a threat to Trump and company, so they found a way to ruin him.
Did the left play right into their hands?
Sure.
The timing made that a political necessity, not to mention that Gillibrand also stood to benefit personally from eliminating him.