As someone who works with textiles, this is not surprising.
It’s ridiculous the amount of microfiber plastics that are used in textiles today.
There are carpets that have 1 million fibers per a square inch.
These are polypropylene, olefin, nylon and polyester.
Polypropylene’s are usually the smallest fibers and I see them the most polluting the environment.
When this stuff is cut or moved, I see a cloud of micro plastics floating in the air.
Dumpsters are filled with these plastics on a daily basis at companies that work with these materials.
Blowers are used for cleanup, spreading the fibers into the air outside.
If I carry a roll of synthetic pad, my shirt is visibly covered with plastic fibers, and if i don’t remove them with a lint brush and put them in the trash, they get washed off in a washing machine and rinsed out into the drain, which in my town, ends up in the ocean.
And this is only carpet, fabric and padding.
Micro plastics are shed in lots of different building products as well.
I see these houses on the ocean getting new azeck trim and vinyl or fiberboard siding.
When this stuff is cut outdoors, it releases clouds of micro plastic dust into the atmosphere and oceans.
It gets depressing thinking about the amount of micro plastics that we create and release into the environment daily on a wide scale basis.
Personally, I try and wear a mask as much as possible to protect myself when working with these materials as much as I can, but I know that I still have an abnormally high exposure to them.
I look forward to finding another line of work to remove myself from this daily exposure, to protect my own health, but I see no incentive to industries, to remove these materials from use, to protect our environment and ecosystems for future generations.
We are truly living in the age of plastic.
I work with PVC.
We compound it as a powder before heating and extruding it.
PVC powder is extremely fine and talc like.
Make a mess if it leaks anywhere.
We use pneumatic transport systems to handle the powder.
A little pipe leak and PVC dust can just contaminate the air.
It will look almost like fog in an area contaminated.
It's not hard to imagine a day where the wind is right, that this stuff could get carried to upper atmosphere.