Fuck Ticketmaster in general but the artists make the decisions.
Not the touring management, not the record company.
EDIT: and before some Swifties come in to defend her just know the premise: there are other options outside of Ticketmaster.
These artist just want big fucking stadiums when you can find big enough venues that don’t contract with TM.
Just more work for your team to set up.
Yep, it’s super frustrating the monopoly they’ve built.
That being said, with a little actual work, they could’ve planned a tour that doesn’t hit TM venues, it IS possible.
But the TM ecosystem makes it so easy/simple that they go the easy route, not to mention TSwift and Co stand to make the most $$$ by having this circus occur.
Any press is good press, now this tour is even more hyped up.
If this is so possible, name us three concert halls or stadiums that don't use ticket master and can host a Taylor Swift.
Thanks for telling me to shut up on a thread about a pop star selling tickets though, you’re clearly a fun person.
You can see directly owned by LiveNation on their website.
They may still have exclusive ticketing arrangements with other venues.
That will be the case for most the venues, they won't be directly owned or operated but they have an exclusive relationship with LiveNation/Ticektmaster.
Hypothetically, if we really wanted to answer that commenter's question, we can check the cities on Taylor Swift's tour and see what venues are in each of the cities.
Then we can check if all the venues are on the list of LiveNation venues.
We can also see what ticketing options are available at the venues not on the list.
Where do you suggest I look for this data?
Would love to find a list of Arenas/Venues owned/operated by Ticketmaster/LiveNation to compare against arenas around the country, but such a list doesn’t seem to exist.
If every venue is truly owned by TM, then we’re just fucked and it’s really sad.
I’d be interested if you could prove that though, like I said I’d love to see the data.
I decided to check quickly with Las Vegas.
Swift is going to Allegiant Stadium, which is not directly owned by LiveNation but it seems all the events on their website use Ticketmaster as a vendor.
Most arenas are owned by municipal or county governments or by sport team owners.
They are never primarily concert or entertainment venues which is what LiveNation specializes in.
They were usually built at the behest of sport franchises at taxpayers' expense.
It occurs to me that since many arenas and stadiums are government owned, their ticketing practices could be subject to freedom of information requests.
And it could be something to focus on during local elections.
Thanks for the link and info!
It seems all the arenas must have some kind of deal worked out with them as you said, since I don’t see any arenas on that list.
Yep, it’s super frustrating the monopoly they’ve built.
That being said, with a little actual work, they could’ve planned a tour that doesn’t hit TM venues, it IS possible.
But the TM ecosystem makes it so easy/simple that they go the easy route, not to mention TSwift and Co stand to make the most $$$ by having this circus occur.
Any press is good press, now this tour is even more hyped up.
Yep, it’s a shame.
But not all venues/arenas.
You’re making this out like they literally had no other choice and that’s incorrect.
Would it be more work?
Absolutely.
But not impossible.
Yeah, this argument makes sense for sure.
Supply vs demand, and definitely a large group of the big boy arenas are Ticketmaster/LiveNation.
Just a fucked situation really, the chokehold they have on the industry.