another article says it was a script to tweet on holidays.
like "celebrate \[insert holiday here\] at KFC" and no one thought to do any filters for like, solemn holidays.
I guess that they have an automated system that send oud promo texts based on flagged days in the calendar.
“Treat you self to KFC on Chistmas/New years/Walpurgis/May 4th/ March 10 etc.” They probably bought the dates/downloaded them from a source not built by themselves.
This is a fairly generic message with no actual Kristallnacht related language attached.
It's not like they tried to be cute with a related emoji or a joke about leavened bread.
And it would be a stupendous audience miscalculation of one's audience if they had.
Even if it was a rogue employee on their way out, that's quite a hurtful action to others and something that could lead to actual consequences for that employee, even if you're no longer employed there.
Making your company look racist isn't a very funny prank for anyone and won't reflect well on you if people find out it was you.
Obviously someone should have gone through and more throughly weeded out sensitive holidays and wrote custom copy appropriate to current offerings and the holiday in question (e.g., "it's national cheese day, we have 5 different kinds of cheeses!")
But either they were lazy and thought it would be fine, or they did do this but accidentally triggered this anyway because they happened to be testing the system or by accidentally leaving competing or broken rules in place.
My guess is they had a list of minor holidays/anniversaries/etc., regionalized, and with automatic notifications that used in the holiday name and some sort of call to action.
“Commemoration of Kristallnacht – Treat yourself to more soft cheese and crispy chicken.
Now at KFCheese!” the message reportedly read.
KFC sent another message about an hour later blaming the blunder on “an error in our system”, Bild said.
“We are very sorry, we will check our internal processes immediately so that this does not happen again.
Please excuse this error,” the message said.
Probably an unauthorized release by an employee that has already been fired.
Article doesn't say what platform the message was released on.