In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Conservatives often file all kinds of allegations and then run to Fox News to report that "Allegations have been filed against...".
I read the brief article…it said essentially nothing.
I get the feeling that’s what will eventually come of this “investigation”.
Of course let’s not forget that AOC was also “investigated” for going to a hair salon and driving in a nice car.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Ditto.
Article said nothing about the substance of the matter, but the accusation is enough to make the right decide she's guilty of anything even as they flak for people like Chao who have also been the subject of damning ethics probes.
I swear to God, people are terrified of her for literally no other reason than that she’s a strong independent woman.
Just last night on Fox News they quoted an "Anonymous White House Reporter" about some ridiculous comments Biden's Administration.
Hmm.
Wonder who that "anonymous reporter" was.
Couldn't possibly be the Fox News reporter....
IIRC, I think it was the fact that it was (at the time) a gas vehicle and not an electric vehicle because she’s all about Green Energy, so people were calling her a phony and a hypocrite.
Of course now that I think about it…it may been something as idiotic as people complaining that it was an Uber car, so not even HER vehicle…cuz y’know…we have the ability to choose what kind of car we want our Uber driver to have.
🙄.
He'll be glad of this red meat to distract from Ye yelling "I love HIITTTLLEEEERRRRR!"
on his show a week (or was it a year?
10,000 years?)
ago.