No offense Zelensky, but Lukashenko deservess all credit for revealing the plan to invade/destroy Moldova when he showed Russia's war plans last march.
No, he's an opporunist, he just made Belarus more invaluable to russia by promoting Russia's invasion plan like that, he can palm it off as an being an idiot but at the same time turn Belarus into basically the indispensable border nation between NATO and Russia after this.
While the rise of Putin in 1999 sabotaged that plan, Lukashenko has been carefully playing the West and Russia off against each other for decades, always staying several steps ahead to secure his own position.
He’s a sly old fox, and many suspect he’s trying to outlast Putin to make another shot at taking over Russia.
I always wonder why he leaked that.
One possibility is that he wanted more western support for Ukraine but it could also have been a genuine mistake.
Lukachenko is a sneaky fucker who really does not want to be dragged into this war.
He just want to be left alone to oppress his people.
He plays dumb.
The stupid potato farmer bit is something he plays up like Krustchev did.
In reality he was the college educated equivalent of a Western agricorp CEO, managing thousands of collective workers and high-end business deals.
I don’t think he worked in a field a day in his life, he was a military officer before becoming a kholkoznik if I remember correctly.
Once he entered politics he cleverly eliminated every one of the old communist elite and the newly emerging democratic establishment, until he was effectively a dictator.
In power he began pulling strings in Moscow to introduce the Union State program of restoring the Soviet Union under a "democratic" regime, and it seemed the terms of this was that Yeltsin would make Lukashenko his Vice President and heir apparent, thus overnight making Lukashenko one of the most powerful people in the world.
Siding with Putin was the one thing he couldn’t really wriggle out of, Belarus was still full of Russian troops after he called them in to help him with the riots in 2021.
Ukraine already offered to liberate Transistria from the Russians a few months back.
It's free up troops there keeping the Russians bottled up to join the eastern and southern fronts if the offer was accepted.