The EU is a democratic union based on the rule of law.
If laws are too much of a hassle, it's time to leave.
Just like the UK did.
And the consequences of that are well-known (spoiler: no funds, economic decline and political isolation).
And it is bad taste, or gaslighting, to accuse others of extortion while literally trying to extort money using Ukraine as a lever imfao.
Hungary won’t back European Union efforts to aid Ukraine with jointly raised funds, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said, a stance that comes as Budapest fights with the bloc to access recovery funds held up by a rule-of-law dispute.
Hungary has provided support for Kyiv on a bilateral basis and will continue to do so, Szijjarto said Monday at a conference in Sofia.
Budapest opposes any arrangement that would see funding jointly with other EU member states, he said.
The EU on Wednesday will propose a new €18 billion ($18 billion) aid package for Ukraine for 2023.
The plan would use the EU’s budget as a guarantee to raise the funds for Kyiv, a step that involves changes to the bloc’s rules that require the unanimous backing of its 27 member states.
Hungary earlier supported the EU’s decision to jointly raise debt to finance the bloc’s recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, but it has yet to receive its share of those funds.
The EU’s executive arm is planning to discuss the status of those recovery funds in a meeting on Nov. 22 as Hungary faces a year-end deadline to satisfy EU requirements related to rule of law.
Officials are working on an assessment of Hungary’s progress on 17 pieces of legislation that Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government has promised to deliver to reduce graft.
“They’re punishing us and openly blackmailing us with EU money,” Orban told the Budapester Zeitung newspaper last month.
“But there’s no legal basis for this -- it’s blackmail, pure and simple.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Hi HarakenQQ.
Your submission from bloomberg.com is behind a metered paywall.
A allows users to view a specific number of articles before requiring paid subscription.
Articles posted to /r/worldnews should be accessible to everyone.
While your submission was not removed, it has been flaired and users are discouraged from upvoting it or commenting on it.
For more information see our .
Please try to find another source.
If there is no other news site reporting on the story, contact the moderators.