What a fantastically stupid thing to say.
It's a sport enjoyed by millions, why would you want to deprive people of that?
The FIA suck ass and we shouldn't be racing in some places, but that's hardly got anything to do with the average fan.
Speaking as a lifelong fan, no we would not simply "move on".
No other sport quite captures the same sense of speed and adrenaline and marries it with the moving history of that championship.
In short, a lot of people have emotional ties to F1 and that isn't something which would just go away.
Not that banning embezzling sporting officials trying to enrich themselves is not important, let's just put things in perspective.
Banning war criminals guilty of the downing of civillian airliner, accused of the crime of genocide and 60,000 other crimes like child rape, torture, and targeting non-combattants would be a good start.
If you’re trying to understand the imagery of the saying- basically it describes the time before running water in the hinterlands (of - I want to say - America) where families would need to collect water in a barrel and use that as a once a month type bath.
The adults would obviously bathe first, and then the kids- oldest to youngest.
The water would of course be filthy by the lady bath and it’d be easy to lose something I there.
So when you turned the barrel to loose the water you’d best make sure not to “throw the baby out with the bath water.”.
The Olympics events and the general system is good.
It's the invitees that should not be from coutries actively destroying the conditions for Ukrainian (or another group) life like denying them electricity, water, and heat through repeated missile attacks.
That's a pretty high bar, most will be able to participate.
The "system" includes bidding to host, which is corrupt.
And the post-bidding construction, which is also corrupt.
And athlete testing, which is also corrupt.
Like not genocide corrupt, right, I mean... if we want to put things in perspective.
People seem to have this pet peeve on corruption, which is bad, but murder, rape, war crimes... 60,000 open cases in Ukraine... ?