Same reason every other country that has palaces don’t let them decay (ignoring Greece) they generate more wealth from tourism then what’s pumped into them.
Lol do you know how many palaces, monuments, places of worship, and public buildings Europe rebuilt from scratch to be exact replicas after WW2.
Europeans are proud and protective of their cultures, their architecture and cities are a large part of that.
You can argue semantics about the difference from a remodel to maintenance as much as you want in the end if it keeps the building standing and functioning for its intended purpose it’s going to happen.
Re-modelling an entire palace is a completely different isse.
Its not neccessary, its purely because they want to do it.
Considering the cost of living crisis of the "commoners", they deserve the criticism.
Oh, ok I see the confusion you have an opinion that it’s just a building, that it’s not used for anything other then a tourist site.
And shouldn’t be remodelled because why fix something that has no function other then for a photo.
That’s fine I’m not here to change that.
And surprisingly we have come a long way in 300 years with amenities (indoor plumbing amazing right!?
).
Also it’s where the U.K host diplomats, dignitaries, and foreign heads of state and we wouldn’t want them sitting in a dinning hall where the roof could collapse.
It’s also a home and office for a lot of people we wouldn’t want them working/living in a structurally unsound building that would be dangerous.
Occupied royal palaces are not part of the Crown Estate,nor are they the monarch's personal property.
The Government of the United Kingdom is responsible for maintaining the palace in exchange for the profits made by the Crown Estate.
So the money for the repairs is being paid for by the crown that is collected by the state not the taxes from the citizens.
The royal family is literally paying with money that’s generated from them to remodel one of the states assets that’s falling apart from age and previous repair delays.
The most important asset I would assume on a international level for the U.K.