In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I haven’t even told her about the roofer I talked to last month who blathered on and on about the PLANdemic when I asked him about the availability of roofing supplies so he could patch the roof.
Almost every member of my wife’s family recently relocated from all over the country to the Clearwater/St.
Pete area.
When they asked why we weren’t moving down there too, I responded, “Because then my kids would need to go to school in Florida.” Not one person had a counter argument, including my BIL who is a public school administrator.
They don't even want teachers to be teaching their kids in schools anymore and voted overwhelmingly for it.
My wife’s coworker is suffering from long covid despite having been vaccinated.
All of us know that that’s a thing.
Most of us probably also know these are first generation vaccines and that the tech will improve but there’s going to be a lot of death and suffering before it does.
That’s life.
Which, whatever.
If they all wanna self select to a couple states, fine.
At some point hopefully there's enough of a majority to counter the control the minority exerts and they can be banished to their southern hell holes.
Here’s the plan: Long covid is messing people up, but it’s super inconvenient to acknowledge that a sizable portion of the population can be crippled for a short time or a long time by an air borne disease and that there’s not much we can do about it.
That’s scary.
But if you tell people all of their lingering symptoms are from the vaccine, not from illness, then people have someone to demonize (“big pharma”, Fauci, liberals, whatever).
That energy can be turned into political gain for DeSantis.
He’s done it before.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I moved to Tampa Bay after graduating from UF fifteen or so years ago.
Some of my friends stayed in Gainesville.
My Gainesville friends seem to have no idea what life is like in Florida outside the blue bubble.
It’s both funny and concerning.
I saw a Dr. Seuss parody bumper sticker here in Tampa yesterday that said “one gun, two gun, red gun, blue gun.” When I showed my Gainesville friend, she was like… I don’t even know what that means???
Haha Well, there are large groups of maladapted, social media addicted loonies.
You avoid them when you can.
I get it.
I’m afraid of lingering problems from covid too.
But I’m under no illusions about post covid symptoms being caused by the vaccine not covid itself.
People need to remember what 2020 was like.
I know people who still have fatigue and brain fog from that period.
Covid is a nasty virus, and it isn’t done with us.
We’ve all just trying to live.. the science will catch up, but maybe not in time for us.
It’s been like this for all humans across all times and places.
My wife went back to work after taking a few days off to deal with dizziness caused by an ear infection.
Guess what her coworker said to her?
He said the vaccine causes ear infections, look it up.
We’re both sick of this stupid motherfucker for lots of reasons, but this one is brand new to us.