Now culture is an intrinsic requirement of human development that evolves from a society.
It defines people who live within that region, in this case Ukraine.
Now overtime societies change, they evolve, they branch out.
They split and form new societies and cultures from one another i.e Ukraine and Russia.
They can even merge together to make a completely new society and culture the sky’s the limit.
It encompasses the social behaviour, institutions, and norms found in human societies, as well as the knowledge, beliefs, arts, laws, customs, capabilities, and habits of the individuals in these groups.
There are definitely people in Ukraine trying to take advantage of limited oversight the government can provide to protecting heritage during the war.
There are also people devoted to save the heritage when the government's ability to do that wear thin.
People living in the same place as you a 1,000 years ago would be completely different to you today.
The only way we know we are linked to those people is with what we find in the ground or hidden away protected from the elements and passage of time.
Sometimes the things we find don’t make sense like we are missing puzzle pieces.
So it’s important when we do find new things about people that lived before us we preserve these pieces of culture and society so that when in a 1,000 years from now people will have the opportunity to see what came before them.
This is our second front: citizens trying to clean up our country's act, making it a worthwhile state for the soldiers to come back to.
The "second front" characterization is by one professor, and is not about caves specifically but about corruption in Ukraine.
You may characterize this person as "intelligentsia", but they are just as passionate about Ukrainian identity as the soldiers on the front lines and the officers commanding the war.
Putting public scrutiny on a development application is something that happens at the municipal level.
If Kyiv is functional enough to be reviewing these applications, they are functional enough that activists cannot "distract" the Kyiv local government from a warfighting effort.
I used the term “intelligentsia” because of the amount of academics/intellectuals along with the deputy head of culture ministry trying to fight for it I think it should be used more, more inclusive blanket term for intellectuals and learned members of their communities who have cultural and/or political sway.
And it seemed a perfect fit to cover all the people shown in the article actively preserving Middle Ages culture sites in the capital city form urban development.
Also fighting corrupt city councils that favour nepotism and unrestricted land development that lines the pockets of either the councillors themselves or a beneficiary seems to be a global phenomenon.
Stories like this about city councils ends up in the media in Australia on a regular occurrence.
Fighting local level corruption in Ukraine probably isn't very high on Zelenskys list of priorities right now.
As long as the local government enables and assists the Ukrainian army to its fullest extent, he's probably happy enough.
But I'm fairly certain Zelensky ran on a anti-corruption campaign promise.
And going up against the US under Trump shows that he has at least some backbone himself.
It'll be interesting to see what Zelensky can do with Ukraine after they've evicted Russia from its territories.
A lot of the corruption was based on Russian influence anyhow.
Being friends with the mafia tends to make corruption happen a lot.
Cleaning out the russophiles in Ukrainian government should go a long way to make Ukraine less corrupt.
Preservation of a Middle Age site for a country that’s fighting to protect its history, identity, and culture… crazy concept.
Most higher learning institutions rely on sites like these for education, training, and historical references.
Sometimes there is only so much you can learn from a book or looking at pictures when you can see it in person.
Next time I’ll write a full dissertation just to cover all the bases to be vividly transparent on reddit ok sounds good 👌.
I’m also happy to point out that just because whoever ruled which area of which land at any one time doesn’t subtract from the connection to who lived there before you.
I am fully aware that a 1,000 years ago Ukraine didn’t exist as the entity and was just the fledgling Kievan Rus' state as well as all the entities that came after (btw you forgot about The Golden Horde aka Mongols).
Until the Industrial Revolution most people never left the village or the surrounding communities they where born in.
So good chance people living in Ukraine now are the genetic descendants of humans living in the same area 1,000 years ago in the Middle Ages.
Well done to their ancestors for avoiding a 1,000 years of war, pestilence, plague, famine, droughts.
Oh and the one time everything froze over for a year in 1816.
Just to be told they shouldn’t have any historical connection to where they grew up until 1917 or did you mean 1991 on their independence?
Wow seems like if they have a 1,000 years of ancestral connection to the region (and then some) that would give them even more reason to fight for the land their ancestors lived on let alone wanting to preserve cultural sites which yes the Russian academics would be interested in as well since both Russia and Ukraine cultures evolved from the Kievan Rus'.
The site clearly existing well before Russia existed as the entity we know today just like how you pointed out about Ukraine.
I also think the would be happy if a 1,000 year old cultural site was preserved as well, but I’m just guessing.
Hey fun fact!
Did you know destruction of cultural sites during conflict is a war crime and can even be classed as genocide in extreme cases?
Crazy I know.
Title is fixed….
Nice.
Now it’s just reads as greedy developers/city councillors who have been bought off or and a vested interest in the development attempting to bulldoze a Middle Ages archeological site destroying cultural and social habitation of the Capital.
Only people that could find issue with that are probably the kind you don’t want on your side anyway haha.
Anyway I’ll let you fight the good fight jumping to conclusions and trying to correct people on reddit.
Keep that opinion strong that destroying cultural sites is a good move.
I would like to know if you would indulge me… what determines the caves to be of less value then other cultural sites?
I mean you can take the same reasoning in Rome building/expanding the metro is constantly halted because they stumble across archeology sites why put the time and effort into assessing, cataloging, preserving an old road or finding a chunk of the Aurelian Walls when they could just carve out the tunnel no matter what’s in the way at the end of the day it’s just stone.
It’s almost like culture is an intrinsic and fundamental concept for people and losing connection to it or it’s history could be detrimental, like the loss reduction in social cohesion and society-wide mental health challenges because weirdly an individual's culture is closely linked with his/her/their sense of identity and belonging to a community.
It also wouldn’t be the first time an imperial palace was burnt to the ground in the city just do what the colonial powers did during the opium wars when they annihilated the Summer Palace… The Chinese where totally cool about it though, definitely forgave the western countries for getting rid of a significant, one of a kind, can never be replicated or rebuilt cultural site which was also a massacre but all of that defiantly left no lasting generational spanning resentment to the countries that perpetuated the act and anyway why would you need more then one palace there was only one emperor.
Back to the forbidden city anything inside it that can be moved and not sold can be taken to a smaller museum building with a tiny model of the palace and a few pictures to remind people what was and the land developed for the 21st century.
Oh how about the forbidden city in the middle of Beijing?
It takes up a massive amount of prime real estate no one lives there anymore, it has no function other then to just exist and represents a period of history that is no longer relevant to the modern age.
Or let’s try to figure out why Russia spent decades and billions of rubles to restore the palaces around St Petersburg the Nazis internationally destroyed after they looted everything they could get their hands on and vandalised what was left in WW2.
They have no Monarchy… they even had to be extra and kill them instead of the usual exile.
No one lives in them and they aren’t commercial spaces after they were rebuilt at best only used for art exhibitions or some single event to show them off once in a while.
Why go through the effort for a few empty buildings The land could be used for agriculture or industrial centres to support growth and economic progress.
Please I’m interested in what you think warrants the discretion to pick and choose, to assign higher importance to objects and locations over others sites that can be deemed irrelevant?
I would advise if I may to err on the side of cynicism when it comes to land development for city and municipal councils in any country.
Generally little consideration is taken outside of how it benefits the councillors and developers.
So yeah city councillors may not always be representatives designed to manage a city or municipality, or be altruistic enough to look past the privileges.
But it’s nice and a relief when someone competent is elected to a council position and they can hold their own against other councillors.
Anyway looking at the article, from the start advises the developers declared their office location on site inside the house on the property.
Which would be impossible due to the fact “It has no roof and collapsed walls”.