In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
not afraid of woke bullying… I appreciate your honest response, however, because it only illustrates my point: you’d vote for the unstable loon over the more stable quantity.
It’s just healthy that we all admit our polarized state.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Correct.
A generic Republican would have won easily.
Every other Republican up for state wide election won easily.
Trump harangued this dude into running and it cost them the seat.
The other options (that are fairly like to have won!)
are pretty bog-standard pieces of shit but at least they know how to, you know, not lie in every sentence?
IrishJoe, so will Democrats.
We are that polarized.
If Republicans ran a war hero or Ivy League grad and Democrats ran Rosie O’Donnell or one of the Kardashians, you can still bet on a close election whose result would be uncertain.
The way I see it, both Trump and Biden had people around them manipulating them very much.
In Trump’s case he had a number of bright conservatives around him, and it lead to some good decisions in spite of himself, as the economic boom reflected.
In Biden’s case he is listening to the progressives in the room, hence the highly negative economic results.
And Irishjoe, are you willing to accept that those dema who voted for John Fetterman - patented trust fund baby idiot - did exaclty the same thing as Walker voters?
Or those who voted for AOC, Tlaib, or (gasp) Biden?
The dems do not have objectively smarter or more qualified candidates.
Look, 5 years ago Alabama nominated a literal pedophile to the senate.
Doug Jones BARELY beat him.
Red state voters are just voting for their team.
Ultimately thankfully in both cases the right candidate won.
But let's not pretend someone disgusting hasn't come awfully close to winning before.