19th century German philosophers adopting eastern dualism promoted the idea of using amphetamines for 'spiritual awakening.
'.
Well, I see what you're saying and I don't disagree.
But I also don't think that's what I'm doing.
I've read them all as well as their contemporary Shoepenhauer, I've also read some eastern philosophy and was a history major and can say I think the "But the Nazi's co-opted Neitzche" is the revisionist / apologist position.
All the 19th century German philosophers were upper class elitists, that's the perspective they came from and that's what the Nazi's were looking for when they went shopping for validation.
From Neitzche to Nazi was an evolution, not a theft.
Basically get themselves to a point of breakdown from sleep deprivation in order to have "Revelations.
".
Neitzche, Jung, Freud all did it, and it's part of the reason I think their ideas / philosophies are garbage.
Modern right wing thinkers like Nick Land also promote the idea.
The idea of using altered states to explore consciousness is to reconcile what stays true and what doesn't.
Meditation is a great way to do this.
Am I judging them by a modern standard?
Of course I am, But the mistakes I point out are factual and shouldn't be glossed over.
Because that's how things like the Nazi's repeat.
After all Neitzche did come up with the concept of "Eternal recurrence" and we should definitely squash a recurrence of Nazi's coming into power.
It's pretty insane, basing your view of consciousness on your experiences while your brain is literally functioning at its worst and shutting down.
It's pretty insane to base your view of consciousness on the narrowly bounded "normal" state, confusing content for conscious experience while being helplessly lost in thought.
Neitzche, Jung, and Freud were all on to important ideas ahead of their time, and with more experience those things have been refined and tested to become part of our current awareness.
Nah, they all fundamentally misunderstood dualism resulting in the concept of ego, and they mixed their assumptions with Darwins in a pretty messed up way to "prove" European ethnic superiority.
I don't view any of the three as the great thinkers they get promoted as and modern psychology rightfully gives some of their assertions serious side eye.
The whole "baby out with the bathwater" approach of cancel culture is a great way to lose touch with the history of human thought.
Just because the Third Reich propped itself up partly on a self-serving interpretation of some of Neitzche's ideas doesn't invalidate all of Neitzche's ideas.
That's silly, simplistic thinking.
Likewise for all the "scientific racism" BS of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
That doesn't make Nietzche 100% wrong about nihilism or theology.
Freud ended up being on the right track with "suppressed memories" as modern evidence-based trauma therapists are finding via IFS.
Quite wrong and misguided a lot of the time, yes, which was underlined in every university psychology course I took.
But he wasn't 100% wrong.