Don’t know but it may be designed for a specific orbit, with a specific camera for the purpose or something similar.
A good way to detect bodies of water might be based on sun reflection.
So that would dictate best viewing would be when between the earth and the sun.
And there might be a camera tech, and surely computing system, that’s best suited to detecting reflections.
Total guess on my part.
And what of the waterfalls?
I'm told not to chase them, and am relegated to the rivers and the lakes.
Could this satellite chase those waterfalls for me?
The SWOT mission builds on a series of U.S.-French satellites that have tracked rising sea levels and measured ocean wave heights since 1992.
But SWOT introduces a new type of instrument, a Ka-band radar interferometer, with improved precision and a broader field of view than altimeters on older oceanography satellites.
The Ka-band radar interferometer, called KaRIn, consists of two antennas mounted on booms 33 feet (10 meters) apart, about half the lenh of a tennis court.
One of the downward-facing antennas will transmit radar pulses, and both antennas on the instrument will measure the reflected radar signals that bounce off Earth’s surface.
Scientists can derive the height of water levels in oceans, lakes, and rivers from the tiny difference in the time the reflected signals arrive at each antenna.
“These antennas have to be kept extremely stable and pointed at the same place on the Earth within a few microns, which is smaller than a human hair,” said Parag Vaze, SWOT project manager at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
“The radar sends electromagnetic pulses from one antenna that reflect off the surface of the Earth and are received by both antennas as the same time.
This provides a very precise measurement of the height using a triangulation technique called interferometry.
That lets us create a 2D map of the surface water.”.
I guess now you'll have the bodies of water mapped with greater accuracy and detail.
Also dynamic features like currents can now be studied from space with this satellite.
Meteosat Third Generation's first launch, MTG-I1, happened four days ago.
This brings weather observations to a new level, but nobody is talking about that.
Talk about stolen spotlight!
It's all about NASA, Elon, yadda yadda.