In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
In general this did not affect the Republicans, women and blacks did not have power so they were supporting the status quo.
However now they had more votes and gained power.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Thats why the ACA was passed by the Democrats.
It is a conservative idea, but the Republicans are no longer the conservative party, and have not been for some time.
They are a reactionary party with little education.
Conservative economics did not attract the general public, who were mostly uneducated.
So the Republicans made a deal with social conservatives angry about women and blacks wanting equality.
As people became more educated they still supported conservative economics but raised their children to be less racist and sexists.
However the sexists and racist continued to be less educated.
The educated became more and more offended as the sexists and racists took over the Republican, found that the Democratic party also has a wing for conservative economics, and moved to the Democratic party.
The Democratic party, now being more educated, is better organized and skilled in diplomacy and compromise.
They are able to pass legislation that Republicans are too disorganized and beholden to social conservatives to do.
The young people on here point to Sarah Palin as the down fall, but the down fall was when the Civil Rights bill passed.
The Democrats lost a generation of voters, but those voters were the destruction of the Republican party.
They were toxic, and should have been isolated by both parties, but the Republicans, like a wife welcoming a husband whose own family warned ger against him, have now become so abused they are afraid of kicking him out for fear of losing what little they have.