What did you say about the missile?
I’ll have you know the missile has over 300 corrective commands and is the top of moving itself to a position where it isn’t.
That’s what I don’t understand about Putin’s plan at this point.
The Russian economy sinks further and further into the toilet while the countries that he hates the most work everything out without him.
If he cares about his legacy certainly the Russian economy would be a part of that?
He’s going to leave it in ruin.
"It's hitting two birds with one stone.
With our weapons you can eliminate invading opponents, as well as clear land so that after the war, space will be made to build residential complexes.
".
"here, take some MOABs.
They're like a little Nuke Jr. without the radiation poisoning.
The scorched terrain will be flattened, allowing you to easily build a foundation for a residential apartment complex and a small local shopping area.
The corpses of the Russian invaders will fertilize the soil and generate a fruitful harvest of wheat and onions".
My point is, Putin is a smart guy... how has his line of thinking devolved so far that preserving the Russian economy doesn’t seem necessary to him to be considered one of the great Russian leaders?
It’s just idiotic decision after idiotic decision from him lately after he was so careful for so long.
If it’s so dog eat dog, how is this war not already considered a massive slip, as if none of his actions over the last 25 years have been considered a slip?
The man has single-handedly ruled Russia for nearly a quarter century; it might be dog eat dog politics, but it still all comes back to Putin.
I feel like humanity is regressing back to the era where people would vigilante justice murder you if they suspected you were a witch "casting hexes", or an alchemist "making tonics and potions".
I wish we lived in a world where wacky shit like that happened.
Then again, it’d be pretty fucked if the West and particularly the US have been funding a military defensive against Russia when Russia was being led by a CIA plant the entire time lmao.
Like we're full-speed just barrelling back to the mentality of "LEMME DRILL A HOLE INTO YOUR SKULL TO HEAL THE DEMONS IN YOUR MIND" type shit.
See with that type of situation it’s more easy to shift the blame, though.
A PM resigns here and there, a few names get dragged through the mud, but not often is someone’s legacy entirely destroyed.
Literally all of the public pressure on Russia, both internationally and domestically, is on Putin.