Yes, but in Catherine’s case, she literally grew up in Prussia as Sophie von Anhalt-Zerbst.
She only took up the name “Catherine” after conversion to Russian Orthodoxy for her marriage.
Probably because those 2 and Kaiser Wilhelm were all first cousins, and not only that but King George and Kaiser Wilhelm were both grandchildren of Queen Victoria.
All 3 boys grew up together as well.
Horrible Histories got it wrong?
This completely alters life as I know it.
Also, the theme song is now stuck in my head, thanks alot.
Horriiible histoooooorieeeeees.
Exterminate?
Lol.
How does it happen, that is, three hundred years were destroyed and everything was not destroyed?
And it does not bother you at all that even during the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union, Ukrainian culture was an important part of the cultural life of the country.
That the same Gogol became popular in St. Petersburg with his stories about the life of Ukrainian villages.
His works are still reprinted, staged on the theatrical stage, many films and cartoons have been made based on them.
And it is included in the compulsory school curriculum.
The same can be said about a lot of other famous writers, artists who represented Ukrainian culture.
“Nicholas, his wife Alexandra, and German emperor Wilhelm II were all first cousins of King George V of the United Kingdom”.
Wilhelm and Nicolas were second and third cousins, as they shared a great grandfather in Fredrick William 3rd, and also separately shared a great great grandfather in Paul the First of Russia (son of Catherine the Great) so while they aren’t ALL first cousins, only Wilhelm and Nicolas weren’t second cousins.
It is also said that Wilhelm II was Victoria’s favourite grandson.
She exchanged many letters with her daughter over his health issues, and had British doctors sent over to Berlin when she thought the German treatments were too backwards.
Why ask Poles and Baltics about Russia?
What kind of "evil" are you even talking about?
Poles and Balts, if they call Russia "evil," only because they couldn't become one themselves.
Neither the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Samogitian and Russian, nor the Kingdom of Poland, nor the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth with its dream from sea to sea.
But for some reason, the "evil" Polyaks had the widest autonomy, the Baltic lands were developed, cities such as Tallinn or Riga have preserved their architecture for all centuries, they still have Catholicism, which the Germans once imposed on them through the Teutonic Order.
And even if we agree with what you said for a moment, who managed all this from Russia.
Until 1612, these are princes and kings born in marriages from Scandinavian, Anglo-Saxon, Pecheneg, Byzantine, Lithuanian and other princesses and princesses.
So also in Orthodox Christianity received from the Roman Empire in Constantinople.
And then there are almost entirely, except for a short period, some Germans before the fall of the empire.