Russia has apparently amassed a lot more air power near Ukraine, possibly in an attempt to finally use it correctly.
It would be a nice to have these planes meet a wall of AMRAAMS, whenever they do come across.
As someone from the U.K I'd just like to say that most of us don't really share this person's high and mighty attitude.
Whilst the U.S undoubtedly shouldn't point the finger at anyone else we don't really have a leg to stand on either for the past 10 years or so and should be showing a lot more restraint.
I'd rather have a constitutional monarchy with a powerless King any day of the week over a fixed Presidential two-party system with little to no checks and balances and mostly unfettered executive powers.
After watching the incompetence that was Donald Trump remain in office for four years, believe me, the rest of us are the ones laughing.
Constitutional monarchies have stood the test of time much longer.
You know when you hear about governments being taken down over no confidence and elections being held?
That's a good thing, that's democracy at work.
When was the last time your government went down and was re-elected after going completely stupid?
Never?
Oh okay.
If I recall, it has a larger radar cross section and is slower and less agile.
Also, since its primary weapon is the, y'know, gigantic cannon the entire plane is built around, it has to get up close and personal rather than volley firing unguided rockets or just being a flying pylon for a guided missile.
All of those things make it less survivable.
They're still better in terms of feature set than the Su-25s Ukraine already has that may or may not be held together with baler twine, gaffer tape, and a prayer.
I suspected as much from some of your first comment but it doesn't change what I said as I never claimed you were from the U.K just that "we" (as in people from the U.K, don't (and shouldn't) share your high and mighty attitude.
Basically - who cares if the airframes won't last into 2024 because combat related metal fatigue means they won't anyway.
If they're good enough now, then good enough is good enough.
Getting them now is more important than getting the best of the best.
So, to claim it's "at least as useful" I think does a disservice to the Frogfoot.
The A-10 isn't a bad plane (I mean, some disagree) but this isn't the environment in which it is designed to thrive.
It works best in tandem with suppressed air defences, i.e.
SEAD dealing with SAMs and fighter cover to deal with interceptors and other would be dogfighters.
Many of the options, including those Ukraine is currently operating, are at the "end of service life" phase.
However, that concept (at least in the Western system) is that the airframe will be airworthy for several more years of peacetime use to be considered useful in service.
That isn't what Ukraine needs right now.
They don't care about airframes that are future proof, that have upgrade pathways, that have planned interoperability with newer weapons systems.
They need effective aircraft now, that are flyable, and good enough to hit hard for a few months.
All Ukraine needs though is that kind of number.
They aren't looking to invade Russia with them, just tip the balance of air power enough to turn the tide and push Russia back to their own borders.
Sweden in NATO would massively reduce the need for Sweden to maintain current levels, at least in the short term.
I think longer term the Swedes would always want to stand on their own two feet but they could certainly survive with a depleted air force for 18 months if it meant Ukraine could drive Russia out and hugely increase regional stability.
At the end of the day, Russia is the destabilising aggressor here and if they're a threat to Swedish peace, then the Gripens being used to bring stability to Sweden is more important than who or precisely where is doing this.
Given the current defence agreements as a NATO candidate (and which will likely stay enforced even if the NATO bid fails), yes you absolutely can.
Or at least, you can send say 50% of it without having the same level of impact on your own defence.
Sweden has a batch of older Gripens mothballed currently.
It wouldn't be impacting their current defensive capabilities to give them to Ukraine.
Also, every Gripen used against Russia by Ukraine is a Gripen that Sweden don't need, because that, realistically, is who they would be defending from anyway.
Reduced Russian capability = reduced threat to Sweden.
Kind of doubtful if the two keep parity on technological advancements.
A human fighter has all of the tools of a drone through it's onboard computers plus the added advantage of the human.
It's a good aircraft in those roles as far as multirole aircraft go... but there are more suitable aircraft available in greater numbers for the exact capabilities that Ukraine wants.
Bit more rugged, bit more payload, bit harder hitting as a result.
What the UK has, Ukraine wouldn't really benefit from.
The UK's fighters are Typhoons, which are primarily air superiority fighters.
They're agile, but not particularly heavily armed or rugged.
Ukraine really wants more sturdy ground attack aircraft because the majority of the targets are ground targets - Russian Air Force presence is minimal in most areas.