In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Comparing her initial run in 2020, in particular, it seems a lot of her support has dampened.
Distinct contrast with Greene.
The smart move would be to primary her with a somewhat saner (in this case, more left) contender.
I don't think they will.
The CO Republican Party is in shambles--I don't think they've got a stronger candidate right now.
If you'd asked me a week beforehand, I would have guessed that Boebert had about the same chance of being ousted as MTG.
There might actually be a chance in 2024, though.
She ran behind Trump 2020 in almost every county.
If there's a Republican candidate who's got a chance of losing that district (and a greater chance every time she opens her mouth), it's Boebert.
That's again comparing a presidential race to a midterm race.
The enthusiasm and turnout levels are completely different.
Way more people voted in that district in 2020, because of the presidential race also happening, then turned out to vote this time.
30k more people voted for the loser in that district in 2020 than voted for the winner in 2022.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Frisch got basically no funding going into this and got this close.
If the DNC takes that level of local dissatisfaction seriously (and they should, because it is a remarkable event that a +15R district only supported Boebert by 500 votes), there is an actual chance to flip this district.
Confusing disinterest in midterms for overall dissatisfaction is a mistake.
That's making a very colossal assumption about why people didn't vote in the midterms that ignores the usual reasons why people don't vote in the midterms.
There are a lot of people who are dissatisfied with Boebert.
She's a genuinely weak candidate (again, contrast with Greene, who won by over 30% in an R+28 district).
There is a genuine chance to flip this district.
I wouldn't say it'd be exactly like this in 2024.
But there's a chance for a pickup here if actual resources are devoted to the race.
You could also look at how fiach had 30k less votes than the democratic challenger in 2020.
Not seeing any conclusions drawn about dissatisfaction there.
It's the midterms.
It's not enough data to go on for a presidential election year.
In 2018, Scott Tipton won CO-03 by 8%.
2014, 12%.
In presidential election years, he won by 14% and 12%, respectively--so the biggest difference there was 2016, which I think we can both agree was generally a Republican wave year.
Midterms account for some swing in turnout, sure, but you can't account for a 500-vote difference by saying "Well, it's a midterm".
There's something else going on with that.
Nor does it explain Boebert doing worse in every county in her district than every other Republican candidate except Ganahl.
"People just don't show up to midterms" doesn't work for either of those cases.
They showed up.
They didn't like her.