One thing is that because Singapore is so small, this really affected the costs of living.
Rent gone up by 40% to 100% in many place in less then a year.
In one of the prime places in SG right now, a 2 bedroom 1600 sqft unit is up for rent at 23000 SGD / 17300 USD a month.
The wealthy Chinese bring money, which is important, but Singapore needs advances industries and this can’t happen without expats.
It's on the extreme side, but even in regular parts of the city I've seen 550 sqft units go for 3500-3700 (in the suburbs essentially).
Issue is that there aren't much "outskirts" because there is no "just outside the city" option for people.
Another is the culture.
What makes Singapore so great are the locals and their culture (I’m a foreigner).
Everyone are polite, no one pushes, no one yells, no one is acting entitled.
Unfortunately, these things are changing.
In the last months, I saw people cutting in lines, luxury cars blocking roads and a lot of those things that just make the living here not as pleasant as it was.
Prices keep growing as areas count as developed and renters are forced to rent with a stupid amount of people per house.
It's a bad time for renters, thankfully over 90% of Singaporeans own their own homes.
The national housing scheme helps buffer the majority of citizens against madness like this.
In fact, many of them actually gain from renting their apartments out.
Yes, its a 99 year leasehold property.
You are aware of that fact when you buy the damn house.
It's the same as any leasehold apartment in any othe major city in the world.
I think your mind might blow if I tell you HK has 50 year leases.
Oh god.
I swear you are the Singaporean equivalent of sovereign citizens, always thinking that you are only one to have discovered some loophole that the rest of us have missed.
The simple fact that Singaporeans like you and the bloke above simply cannot fathom or refuse to accept is that our country is smaller than Rhode Island, and the only chance for future generations to own their own homes is for there to be limited leaseholds.