In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If you want to be converted I have a church that sacrifices virgins who are willing sacrifices to the middle age sacrament of what the hell are you talking about to the volcano of conservative media.
Grooming happens, systemic problems are real.
When shit gets tricky is when positive reinforcement is taking prisoners for walks and giving them cigarettes, wine and cheese and just chatting on the walk to gain intel.
Allowing people to live the life they want the way they want isn't grooming.
Grooming is forcing everyone to live in the heterosexual norm.
What is with their unhealthy fascination with LGTBQ people?
Never once as a straight person has someone else being gay had a negative impact on my life.
But what I have observed repeatedly is conservative people fucking up their own lives and ruining family relationships due to failing to accept another's sexuality.
I've seen that plenty of times.
I've heard about this from just about every LGTBQ+ person I've known.
If you really look at it, it's never been gay people causing any problems, it's the straight people in their lives being assholes.
This right here, this move by these Republicans is nothing more than justifying shitty, inhuman behavior.
It pisses me off.
No one deserves to be subjected to conversion therapy.
The acceptance of LGBTQ people is a sign of societal change, and the GOP hate and fear change, as they can't control it and progress invariably leaves their regressive cultural values behind.
In my mind society is completely socialist.
My food, shelter and love are provided for.
I find satisfaction in my life through work Those bellow me are totally subservient to my will and I willingly submit to the will of those above me.
Life is good.