In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Federal Election Commission records show the Phoenix-based Turning Point PAC, a fundraising arm of the conservative re-education machine Turning Point USA, shelled out big bucks to send a barrage of last-minute text messages to voters.
But they weren’t targeted at locals choosing between incumbent Sen. Mark Kelly and fringe conservative challenger Blake Masters in Arizona.
With just one day to go before the midterms last week, the prospect of a Republican takeover of the U.S. Senate was looking stronger than ever.
But a handful of far-right foot soldiers in Arizona weren’t taking any chances.
Instead, they were geared toward people across the country in Pennsylvania, where the contest between Democrat John Fetterman and Republican Mehmet Oz was coming down to the wire.
Suffice it to say, the texts—attributed to Trump acolyte and Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk—flopped.
Fetterman triumphed, overcoming a stroke and a rough debate performance to easily knock off the quacky TV doc whose connection to the Keystone State was always a bit murky.
The last-minute spending spree is yet another example of Arizona’s rising presence on the national stage and its bizarro politics’ influence in battleground contests across the country.
But it may also offer fresh fodder to bipartisan critics who argue the Trump brand doomed viable Republican challengers in key races—or at the very least failed to deploy their resources effectively.
“Charlie Kirk was working overtime with annoying texts for Oz,” Pat Hayburn, a Havertown, Pennsylvania, voter who described himself as a moderate and received one of these messages on Monday, told The Daily Beast.
The PAC tied to Kirk, the Phoenix youth leader who has emerged as one of the nation’s premier MAGA mouthpieces, paid $250,000 to Arizona Republican Rep. Jake Hoffman’s company, 1Ten LLC, for “texting services” last Monday.
Curious why you mention Charlie Kirk without referencing that he is a domestic terrorist who sent busloads of people to the Capitol on January 6th and instructed them to "fight"?