Each interceptor is over $1M on their own.
That's $72M just for ready to go interceptors, not including any reloads.
The Sentinel radar is $70M as well.
Almost all of it is actually US made.
The only thing Norwegian is the fire control systems, and even then, there's US variants that can easily be swapped out.
It's basically just the US Marine's surface launched AIM-120 program from the early 90s, only Norway didn't cancel it like the Marines did.
Hence why it uses the US Marine's chief SHORAD radar instead of a better radar.
The fire control unit can be easily swapped out, but is actually the one defining feature which let's the system track and hit targets at an unprecedented rate.
A lot of systems use the other parts, but does not score close to 100% in any systems simulations.
NASAMS regularly does.
In larger networks, NASAMS is integrated into the whole range of missile defense, so the real range of a launcher is then just restricted by its missile range.
In theory it can launch using a global hawk catching an enemy aircraft far beyond visual range.
In this network it can also work with the f35 in the sky, shooting at f35's prefered target.
And vica versa.
There's a 1000x different firecontrols you can use, all roughly the same quality.
US uses their own fire control for the NASAMS around Washinon DC for example.
Norway uses their own and it's great, but it's also nothing special...
There's literally no other air defense system that uses the AIM-120 as its interceptor...
There was CAWLS and SLAMRAAM, but they were both cancelled early on.
It has nothing to do with NASAMS itself, it's literally the interceptor that's the core aspect of it.
That's basically every air defense network my man lol.
A US Navy warship can fire off an SM-2 at a target it can't see, as long as another ship or aircraft feeds it the targeting data.
US Army's PAC-3 batteries engage based off targets F-35s provide them, even if they can't see the target themselves.
You're also going to have a REAL hard time providing targeting solution via a Global Hawk... sure, they have a radar, but it's a ground scanning radar, not one designed for tracking aerial targets lol.