Right?
To me they were described as medical limiters to emotional downs and ups to overall stabilize my mental and that's exactly how I experience them.
If you have medication that won't allow you to remember an event, then you are unreliable at attesting if the event occurred or not.
What is going on that you can read 6 sentences and entirely missed one of them where I point out that even I believe I am wrong?
When you are under it does NOTHING.
You are paralyzed and feel everything.
Torture.
But you get a medication that effectively wipes your memory of the event.
It's an interesting idea, but there are certain physiological responses to pain and stress that would be noticeable even if you're paralyzed.
Your heart rate and blood pressure would go through the roof, for example.
My aunt had some sort of allergy to some sort of anesthesia.
She woke up in a paralyzed state and felt everything.
The entire memory drug didn't do anything.
She called it a nightmare.
Here is the thing that is undeniable.
The idea that I said that anesthesia is unnafective is wrong.
You don't have to be a statistics major to know that the statement would never hold up.
When you think about those people and then go, 'And yeah the surgery is followed by a drug to make them forget...' - it has always felt scary to me.
I don't know about all that, I think it actually does make your entire body's nerves numb.
I had a procedure done about a month ago that required general anesthesia; before I went under, the anesthesiologist warned me that people have a tendency to forget to breath, because their body doesn't give them distress signals.
Sure enough, the first thing I remember waking up to was the sound of a machine's distressed beeping and her telling me to take a deep breath.
I then spent the next 15 minutes rubbing my face and stretching my limbs just trying to get some feeling back.
The next morning, I woke up number than I was when I went to bed, because the stuff was still inside me and it felt like it had somehow pooled when I was sleeping.
Every few years I get this bright idea in my head that I don't need them.
I ween myself off them.
6 weeks later I am shamed and back on them.
To suggest that they are harmful and I am better off without them is sort of assanine.
I am not aware of a solution to get rid of them.
I once had an exasperated doctor point out to me that plenty of people are on medications for the rest of their lives.