You forget that it was/is to Russia's benefit to show that they can keep the peace in their sphere of influence.
That's something only great powers can do and Russia is desperate to be seen as a great power.
Unfortunately they've gotten themselves bogged down in Ukraine which is swallowing whole what manpower Russia had available.
This has been readily apparent in regions Russia was policing and the noticeable decline in numbers of peacekeepers has emboldened certain groups to revisit past grievances.
This is basically the reality of the situation.
They have sent a handful of troops in here or there to "enforce peace" in CSTO nations a few times but only when Russia was not engaged in a real conflict.
Invading their neighbor is just a higher priority than enforcing CSTO security agreements.
It's deeply deeply embarrassing for the Russian government as the Azerbaijan military is miniscule in comparison to what Russia should have available to it.
Russia has been pulling back from the world and focusing its attention on Ukraine.
A few months after the war clearly wasn't going well they pulled their entire presence from Syria.
They don't have anything spare to handle other nation's conflicts anymore.
The CSTO is such a useless alliance.
Even Kazakhstan gave up on it when it started sharing CSTO intelligence with turkey and turkey planning to establish drone manufacturing facilities in Kazakhstan.
It even supported Azerbaijan in its war with Armenia and is looking to escape Russias influence over its energy sector by talking with Azerbaijan over building a pipeline.
Turkey is the reason Armenia is forced to go with CSTO rather than trying to build closer relations with NATO.
Turkey would also like to see itself as the big player in the region (as would Iran).
I don’t think Russia will and can go to war with Kazakhstan.
I think it’s just Russian media pushing pro-kremlin sentiment to its Russian audience.
Besides, Kazakhstan doesn’t have a decent military and probably won’t develop it since it’s population hates the government (with Russia saving its ass during the January revolution).
Plus - even though Kazakhstan doesn’t support the war, it’s highly dependent on Russia for imports, controls a portion of its energy sector, and requires passage through russia to export goods.
And even though armenia is reliant on the CSTO do to Turkish-Azerbaijani aggression - is Russia doing anything for them?
Azerbaijan with the support of turkey literally controls actual Armenian territory, with Russia just giving thoughts and prayers.
Armenias own CSTO ally Kazakhstan supports Azerbaijan in its war against it.
The third option for protection is Turkey (although they have already chosen Azerbaijan and are the guarantors of the Azerbaijani enclave inside of Armenia).