In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“Attention people of the United States of America.
I come before you today to interrupt live TV to inform you that it’s still not aliens.
Thank you for time and God bless, NeverTrump”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
None of them were making fun of this matter.
Senators from both parties want him to address this issue after receiving the classified briefing yesterday.
I liked Republicans making fun of an old man running for President from his basement.
During a highly contagious global fucking pandemic.
They were really trying to fight about those masks.
Great example of why they suck at 4D checkers.
This should happen, if only for the opportunity to get in front of a huge audience.
It would be the most-watched Presidential Address in history.
If the WH puts out a statement saying “The President will address the American People tonight regarding the recent UFO encounters”, it will be on all networks live.
Who wouldn’t watch?
So what if it turns out to be a nothing burger; Biden gets to look competent and likable on Fox News.
Its a winner.
Wait until the AARO office is up and running.
The permanent research office is mandated to inform the public of every single encounter with UAP starting from 1945 with a yearly report starting this year.
Here’s a of what some senators said yesterday right after the classified briefing.
I still haven’t made a compilation from Democrat senators but basically the same talking point, Biden needs to inform the public because of national security and flight safety concerns.