In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Biden can run if he'll take a standardized test on mental acuity as that is the only issue the GOP has created that has resonated with voters.
Biden's done a great job and we need him to keep NATO united vs. Russia until Ukraine pushes Russia out.
Well, for one, Biden cannot run.
The midterms were not at all about Biden, but the Roe decision, and preventing fascism in our country by a totalitarian party.
Biden is simply too old, and now, too much baggage (remember Hillary?
).
We are talking about a man, that is only two years in and can hardly talk, or walk.. "He" did not defy midterm odds.
We did, for many other reasons but him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But as an Independent that helped that happen, realizes this man is done.
Nonetheless two more years, with much more political baggage.
Biden presided over one of the most productive sessions of Congress in decades and defied Midterm odds.
Plus, incumbency advantage is great to have.
Dems shouldn't throw it away because some people are impatient and don't wanna wait until 2028.
In short, he, and the Democrats would have to be nuts to run him again, but they just may be.
However, i very much doubt he will run again.
Right, they need a viable alternative, not Harris, but they'll get one.
Almost any Democrat could beat Trump, just not Joe being he may at that point be able to even speak, and has too many gotchas for Republicans to feed on.
This man will be wheeled out in a wheelchair and having to communicate via text at a debate two years from now.
Reagan was a drooling idiot, his second term.
Joe, in his first.
God forbid, he may even pass on before the election.
Why would you even consider these an option?
Just get someone else.