In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Ankle monitors exist like this, and for anyone on probation, they pay for it (bullshit) and they have to inform their officers for approval if they're going outside their geofence.
My cousin was murdered by an ex who had an ankle bracelet and whom she had taken a restraining order against.
You're having way too much faith in the system and in policing to expect that they're going to be proactive in every case especially when you have areas, like Detroit, where police response time can take hours depending on which neighborhood you're calling from.
This would be for an elevated criminal with restraining orders or history of crime and violence, not j walking, minor possession or driving with a expired tag bullshit.
And the current ankle bracelets have tamper monitoring on them already, so they know when they're cut.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Edit: this was supposed to be more of a thought experiment but I'm watching the world cup at the same time.
And I started to think about all the ways listed below could go horribly wrong like this Cluster F.
OP ---Then they should also have a taser built in and cellphone that has two way communication.
Get close to the geo fence it vibrates.
Stay too long a 1 second shock.
Leave the geo fence shock every minute and the ankle bracelet contacts the monitoring service for two way communication.
Don't give your password or explain your situation like I'm in an ambulance heading to the hospital shock every 15 seconds.
Don't contact the PO, try to cut it off or get inside to the base terminal to pair it with in ten minutes blows your foot off.
Enter a no go GPS location like a ROs address everything happens.
Don't like the options then go sit in jail.
The optics of the passage of the first bill had everyone screaming they could let murderers out with no bail.
We have situations where violent offenders are put on home monitoring and still manage to kill someone or the person who has a restraining order.
Chicago there are about 100 murderers on home confinement.
The linked article is old and from DC.
I understand, my OP was supposed to be more of a thought experiment but I'm busy watching the world cup at the same time.
And I started to think of all the possibilities this could go horribly wrong.
(Thinking of the pizza guy forced to rob a bank with a bomb around his neck).
If a person could just use something to cut a standard one off and the response time is 1 hour, I forsee this passage of the bill if used in a generous way come back to bite the court system in the ass.
I would like to see some sort of two way communication built in to the ankle monitor instead of the base station.
Or another thought how about we change bail to be based on net worth.
Hey you ran over someone with your car and you are worth $20,000,000 well your bail is set at X amount your net worth.
Or even better use the Finland system.
Speeding 40mph over the speed limit with reckless driving and your worth $20,000,000 your fine is $150,000.
And while allegorical anecdotal, one of my cousins was beaten to death by her abusive ex, whom she had a restraining order.
There were no beds, so the county releases him in a signature bond with extra stipulations that they had hoped he'd fail on.
They were technically right, but eh...