In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Maybe the gun problem wouldn't be so ridiculous if Republicans didn't allow extremist views to be so normalized in their political party.
We all know that's the truth.
Tell me Tucker Carlson is acting in good faith when mass shooters say they watched his show.
"In retrospect, Sandy Hook marked the end of the US gun control debate.
Once America decided killing children was bearable, it was over."
— Dan Hodges.
No, I just talk about mine in graphic detail.
They only want to talk about my sexuality so they can bring up political talking points.
I won't do that though.
I just talk about all the men I've slept with, what my fantasies are, blowjobs, etc.
That usually stops it pretty quick.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The last Walmart shooting in 2019 left 18+ people dead.
The shooter had a thing against Mexicans.
Geez, I wonder fucking why.
One of these days, it can literally be any of us.
The people that died tonight were aware of the club Q shooting and how horrendous of a tragedy it was.
Now they're dead.
Our politics are a joke.
I'm gay and was anticipating some very irritating conversation on Thanksgiving with some of my family.
Now after these two recent shootings, I am going to have to stick to saying, "we are not going to find common ground."
Although I will say, that tends to be satisfying.
Nothing like watching a MAGA conservative act confused that you don't engage.
Sometimes even angry.
Fox News was sued a few years ago for this exact thing.
Their shows incite hate.
Guys what, Fox argued that no reasonable person would take their content seriously.
Republicans refuse to denounce the extreme views in their party.
THEY are telling their supporters that gay people are groomers & pedophiles.
That black people are thugs and gang bangers.
That Mexican people are illegals trying to steal our jobs.
This is NOT a bipartisan issue.
It is completely one sided and I'm tired of guys like you pretending it's not.