Orbán hates communists supposedly but I am pretty sure that he would love North Korea.
Everyone is very patrioatic there.
Taking over 70% of all native tongue media does wonders.
Just an example of how much control this allows him:
(They blamed the war in Ukraine for the same in the 2 months before that, but I guess they have realized that the "wartime inflation" phrase has lost its edge.
).
Doesnt change the fact that hungarians voted for him.
I understand that everyone is brainwashed but thats no excuse in 21st century.
People are just stupid in general.
I have 'friends', young adults, who believe Orban to be the 2nd coming of jesus and protector of hungarians.
In the past 2 months, Fidesz has built a narrative about the EU sanctions against Russia being the cause of the Hungarian economy tanking and the value of the Hungarian Forint taking a nosedive.
This narrative paints Orbán and his party as "freedom fighters" trying to keep a deranged Brussels in check, shifting all blame solely on the EU.
This is possible due to a small detail about the sanctions being kept obscure in the media: Any one head of a member state not signing a sanction is enough to stop it from coming into effect.
In other words, Orbán signed everything that he claims is hurting his country.
A (it's in Hungarian, not sure if there is an English version) revealed that a third of all voters (and half of Orbán's voters) were convinced that Orbán voted against the sanctions.
Not that my vote made much of a difference; if you think gerrymandering in the US is bad, you should see some of the electoral districts in Hungary.
Their stranglehold on almost all national media, combined with the deep level of fuckery that was committed during our elections and their constant altering of the rules means that they have an iron grip on this country.
Deposing them, at this point, would take a mass revolt and rejection of their rule.
Considering im Hungarian living in the UK for the past 9 years im fully aware what is going on.
But the fact still remains, as long as FIDESZ can buy votes with a sack of potato, nothing will change.
Orban was gonna win without gerrymandering just not with all the seats.
\- when they have a segment of the population so thoroughly brainwashed that they're continuing to support Orbán even as they face winter with either no heating fuel or such colossal heating bills that they simply cannot afford to keep their heaters or furnaces running.
\- while the opposition is completely incapable of presenting a combined front or even any kind of platform to run on, acting with such incompetence as to make a lot of people genuinely consider that Fidesz is actively paying them off to squabble ineffectively.
When information is readily available in a matter of seconds, you dont need to be a scholar to read up on questionable matters.
We re not in the middle ages anymore.
Back in 2012 or 13 maybe?
Top of the Hungarian tax officials were banned from the states citing somethig along the lines of 'unrepairable corruption'.
Very little news coverage ofcourse but they couldnt fully hide it so Victor decided to propose a tax on internet based on data usage.
People went onto the streets in protests and he eventually pulled it back a month later.
It was just a ruse to hide the fact that some of his top tax people were banned from the states, and sure enough it worked, because it got forgotten.
Some people went as far as to say how amazing Orban was, that he listens to his people and so on so forth.
Election was real.
Problem is majority of hungarians genuinely believed that Hungary would enter the war due to the state media.
Hungarians are just.. all im saying if we gave voting priviliges based on IQ and not age, the world would be a better place.
To put it simply, the ruling government has been continously in power (holding the majority of parliment) for over 12 years has managed to ruin diplomatic ties with everyone else.
Orbán's visit to other countries is met with booing crowds.
All of Orbán's ideological friends abroad are in trouble.
Trump is under legal investigation, Bolosanaro is out, Russia is desperately grappling to keep a losing war going longer in the desperate fantasy that Western unity will fall apart with the cold and so on.
The ruling government is a mafia-state that works on Russian example, except that it has been reconfigured to siphon EU funds into private hands.
Except the EU has cut off funding.
In everything else, state-controlled media, systematized corruption, erosion of civil rights, neglect of civic basics such as infrastructure, healthcare and education (the educational system is kind of collapsing as teachers demand a livable wage and are told to STFU) is there.