Russia has been doing shit like this for years now, and should remind everyone that Putin already declared war on the West.
He’s just furious that we finally woke up and started retaliating.
And that his military sucks borscht.
They started their hybrid war against the west a decade ago.
By the time of Brexit they had years of practice eg in Eastern Europe and of course Ukraine and Russia itself.
Firstly so Putin can point to other countries problems and say western democracy is just as corrupt, if not more so, than Russian .
If that is perceived to be true then the Russian public won't bother wanting true democracy.
The second big purpose is to cause the affected countries to turn their attention inwards.
That leaves Putin and the Kremlin to do whatever they please while others aren't paying attention.
The ultimate goal though is simply for Putin to live.
To continue living he needs to remain in power.
For that to remain so he believes he needs to stop people wanting and trying to bring about democracy.
The ultra paranoid KGB brain in Putin believes that America and the CIA are always plotting to overthrow him.
He sees democracy and NATO as weapons used by America and the CIA to topple him.
He's deadly afraid of being toppled as has happened by other dictators.
Boris Johnson seized the moment to be Churchill.
That was a dream of his.
The war also served as a distraction from his own scandals.
It became a running joke here in the UK that Johnson would get a phone call from or visit Ukraine whenever someone asked a difficult question.
It was his way of hiding and no different than the fridge incident.
I'm not saying it is wrong for the UK to help, far from it, but I am saying there were other motives for helping.
Johnson only ever thinks of Johnson.
He's been like that throughout his entire life.
He did say let the body bags pile high during the pandemic so he's not worried about people needlessly dying unless it is himself.
Regarding Putin, yes it has backfired.
How much depends on how much the Russian public actually know and how much they wish to protest.
That is a difficult thing to measure as they know exactly what happens if you speak out against Putin or protest.
Even before the war the police would beat you senseless and the "justice" system would leave you with crippling debts as punishment for speaking out.
The problem is that there are plenty of people who support the war as they believe the Kremlin propaganda.
At a basic level there are two groups.
The older demographic tend to get their news only from Kremlin controlled TV.
They tend to support Putin.
The younger demographic tend to get their news online and tend to dislike Putin.
On top of that, there are people who don't think Putin has gone far enough.
They've taken the propaganda and really ran with it!
Some of them will not be satisfied unless Ukraine is destroyed in a total victory.
These ultra nationalistic people who are baying for blood and total conquest could cause Putin a major headache as anything but a total victory will be seen as a failure and a sign of weakness.
If Putin were to be branded as a weak unpatriotic cowered by enough people to gain significant momentum it could be very damaging to his fictitious image as the tough strong man of action, a world leader on par or greater than American presidents.