Unfortunately this is far from the first time the regime is doing this sort of thing.
Other youth and children whose bodies have been stolen by the government of Iran or whose family have been arrested and tortured in prison for telling the truth about how their children were murdered by the Iranian regime:
Kian Pirfalak, 9 years old, was shot dead by the Iranian government forces in the middle of the street while travelling home with his father, mother, and sibling in a car.
His father was also shot and later died as a result.
Kian's family have released a video showing them keeping his corpse at home on ice before they until find a safe time to give him a funeral (I have posted the video on my profile if anyone is looking for it, nsfw/l).
This is because the regime in Iran frequently steals the bodies of protestors or political prisoners that they kill or hospitalize in order to prevent anyone from finding out what happened to them and to prevent their families from holding funerals for them.
His mother released at a video from his funeral where she detailed the account of his death to the mourners and announced that she has been threatened by the government to lie and say that Kian was killed by western backed terrorist rioters instead and she has risked her own life by telling the truth.
The government are trying to twist his death into a pro regime propaganda lie.
[16 year olds Sarina Esmailizadeh and Nika Shakerami were both arrested by the regime, tortured and raped in prison, and murdered by the regime forces in prison.
Nika's mother released statements outlining how her daughter was murdered, the various wounds and disfigurements on her body by the regime's torture and rape, and how her siblings were arrested to threaten the mother to lie and say Nika committed suicide and then later claimed she was thrown from a building by "protestors"] (.
[21 year old Armita Abbasi was kidnapped from the hospital she was sent to as a result of severe internal bleeding from anal rape torture while she was imprisoned for partaking in the anti regime protests in late October and she has not been heard from since.]
(.
I cried for these victims.
I don’t even know how they look like yet I can understand pain.
There is no reason for torture to be inflicted like this.
Absolutely animals.