In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It would be hilarious, except they're also going to get a bunch of synagogues burned down as collateral damage to their fuckery so it's actually not funny at all.
Man, these two and Trump are just imploding in real time, without a hint of shame, and it looks like they will all eat each other.
I fucking love it.
I’ve never seen anyone drop in morals and intelligence in such a quick period of time as Musk, except for maybe Jordan Benzoson.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
You’re probably right, but this ideology needs to die.
And we are seeing this is real time.
Hate to sound biblical but it’s always darkest before dawn.
Hopefully they’ll find decency again in the GOP.
I wouldn’t call it a lost cause but it ain’t looking good.
Although it does seem like more people at least in my circle have started to question some of his antics.
Like we literally voted to let nonviolent felons to be able to vote and then desantics election police arrested folks who received letters stating they could vote but since they were violent offenders it was considered voter fraud (I butchered this story but I’m at work so here ) .
It’s really scummy shit like that which pisses people off.
Nah, we are witnessing psychosis from bipolar disorder in real time.
As disgusting as the shit Kanye is saying is, he is single handedly destroying any credibility or popularity that Trump had left with rational Americans, as well as seriously goading that asshole Musk into all kinds of precarious positions.
It’s both entertaining and encouraging to watch!