No way, hydrogen leaks from any containment vessel, it's too small a molecule to be contained properly.
It leaks and brittles most materials used.
If fucking oil that's thick and gooey leaks pretty often just imagine how much tiny hydrogen can leak.
Yes, but as a Portuguese that knows the planned "Hydrogen generation plant" is right next door to the main (only one now) Portuguese oil refinery...
I have my doubts...
e.g.
Storing depleted nuclear fuel in underground caves, is out of sight, but still will have some impact, right?
So what could we use instead of nuclear fission that also doesn't produce more CO2 and/or non-recyclabe by-products?
The hotter the water going into a hydrogen electrolysis plant, the more efficient it is.
For example, colocating a hydrogen generation plant with a nuclear power station allows the plant to produce power when required, and use the water/steam in the secondary cooling loop as the input to a much more efficient electrolysis process.
Additionally, any electrolysis plant would need to be located close to a powerful node on the electricity grid, which is mostly going to be beside heavy industry or a power generation system.
That indicates either that the journalist is quoting how someone else characterizes the pipeline, or is trying to clarify that being green means being good for the environment, not literally green colored.
At this point in time, I would like to affirm that nothing humans need, will ever be "good" for the environment, what we need to focus on, is "what is less harmful for the planet"...
Congratulations, you just described several hundred thousand different chemicals as "gas" and claimed they were all dirty.
And as green hydrogen is only going to be produced from renewable energy, it will be produced only from excess renewable energy which would otherwise be permanently lost.
So the efficiencies of the process are largely irrelevant.
Basically all plans for renewables require considerable overbuilding and interconnects, and in that model there will frequently be times when we have excess power.
During those times, hydrogen will be created.
During times of indufficient energy, hydrogen will be consumed.