In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I doubt that the RNC will make the same mistake they made in 2016 by allowing 17 people on the ballot, which ultimately boiled down to some number, around 10 in most states, of moderate experienced Republicans, and a Washinon-outsider underdog populist, who was able to grab enough votes to move on as the moderate vote was fractured.
In 2024, Trump will be facing everyone trying to be a bigger populist, along with having to defend his record.
And he just sounds tired and boring at this point, no wonder security wouldn't let people leave the other night during his announcement.
The billionaires will fall back inline once Trump makes fun of DeSantis and the other fools who think they can out dumbass Trump.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
A lot of things have changed since then.
Trump was a Washinon outsider, and an underdog, with no political record to defend.
None of that is true now, combined with the Republican Supreme Court has taken away access to abortion in many states, I suspect a portion of voters are lost forever to the GOP over that one.
Billionaires may hate him, but if he's the last guy standing to cut taxes and deregulate...
I believe they'll open up their checkbooks.
They might be running away right now.
But I remember 2016, candidate after candidate was the GOP hotshot, until Trump destroyed them with some stupid remark.
I could be completely wrong, but in 2016 he destroyed candidate after candidate.
The bigger the dick he was, the more GOP voters loved him.
No one in the establishment took him seriously until he was the last guy standing.