Well, yeah, maybe, stupid us for assuming they'd want to be part of the team that's given their civilization any kind of success over the past god knows how many years with the tech and services sectors we've exported to them.
Go work in India for several months, when you're greeted at the center with familiar western brand names everywhere and work out all the inner city workers want to work for the western companies placed there - come back to me and tell me that's just arrogance.
You'd think if they enjoyed so much Western partnership they'd try to stop sponsoring a state terrorist like Russia in their pursuit of destroying Western values...but hey, maybe that's me being arrogant.
lol dude worked in an Indian city and goes on to generalize an entire economy.
There are townships with exclusively Japanese, German and western firms if you live in that bubble you would imagine everything is western made or built.
No doubt they employ many locals but that is not a significant portion of entire workforce.
Chinese goods are the most prevalent compared to expensive western ones.
Your personal bias in your conclusion is what makes you arrogant.
I kinda don't blame India though.
The US has sided with and arms their "good friend" Pakistan and the west have left India on their own to fend against China.
The only country that seemingly has been a reliable ally has been Russia.
So we treat them like crap, give them no choice but to befriend loser countries like Russia, then step in at moments like this expecting them to side with us?
?
It’s not about what Ukraine has done _to_ them, it’s about what Russia can do _for_ them.
The nationalistic ethos of India aligns with Russia much more closely than it does western powers, and their close proximity makes material trade much easier.
It’s more about common interests than principles.
But, it is worth considering a small way in which India profits from Ukraine’s woes.
Ukraine has been emerging as a major power in the tech world for about a decade, and India has been struggling to claim their piece of that pie for a little longer than that but is hampered by a high defection rate in the form of their best tech workers getting visas to leave India and move into western nations.
So you might say that in some ways India has a vested interest in seeing Ukraine struggle to maintain its basic infrastructure because that slightly lessens the brain drain they experience in 2 different ways: it creates fewer visas for their citizens as more countries up quotas for Ukrainians as well as creating a less formidable Ukraine to compete against because a nation at war doesn’t have stable internet or programmers who can focus on work.
That latter point though is a very minor one to the overall geopolitics of what India has to gain from a weakened Russia that needs to expert energy and weapons.
Good points, I hadn't considered the point about them vying for position in the tech industry.
My lament is more that India wasn't accepted more by western nations and therefore had no choice but to align with Russia.