No surprises here, Israel's new ultrazionist security minister even said that stone throwers should be executed on the spot and that israeli soldiers killing civilians should receive an automatic amnesty.
Expect things to get worse.
Wouldn't surprise me if someone gets killed for looking at a nutjob colonist funny next time.
Edit: ITT JIDF shills defending a politician who literally made a shrine in his house for a zionist terrorist who gunned down 19 innocent people.
How do you fucking sleep at night?
Lovely brigading from r/israel too.
Can you please link me to where exactly did Ben Gvir say "IDF soldiers should execute stone throwers on the spot"?
Because currently it seems like complete slander.
I've never heard Ben Gvir say that.
He did say that the soldiers should respond and defend themselves better - but response and killing is two different things entirely.
Every time he says "עונש מוות למחבלים" he is basically telling "his" soldiers like the Givati soldier in Hebron that this is what they should do.
If you call these things terror all the time, and you say that terrorists should get a death penalty, this is the direct result.
First of all - you wrote "death penalty to Arabs" which is something that a superbly small and extreme group in Israel says, and not even 100% seriously because of course you can't do that.
Secondly, so because he thinks and says that after a real trial is made in court, there should a death penalty to terrorists who deserve it - that means that every soldier now thinks he has an authority to shoot to kill?
If there is a soldier that somehow understands that - then it's that soldier's problem for having only 10 active brain cells.
Yes, he needs to understand that as a politician, what he says influences the greater population.
Not everyone has the nuance that he means after a trial especially when they are in the stress of an attack, even if not life threatening.
We have to understand that we have soldiers with 10 brain cells in the IDF because we have an army of conscripts.
That's what it means to have a צבא עם.
Third of all, it's their choice to throw rocks.
If they don't like it, don't throw rocks at people.
It's just suicide at that point.