In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The culture war stuff the right is pushing seems so insane until you realize the whole circus is designed to distract from the fact their only actual policy positions are cutting taxes for rich people and taking away health care and social security from people.
Their actual policy positions are very unpopular.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Dubya, Donald Trump, Marjorie Taylor Greene, and Herschel Walker.
Those three are no Daniel Websters, no Abraham Lincolns.
If being able to speak articulately was a qualification for high office, then none of these people would be within an inch of power.
During the Fetterman/Oz campaigns, I constantly saw conservatives saying "how can you support someone that can't even talk!"
And all I could think was 'that's the least important part of electing a politician.'
I'm not electing someone for how well they speak on the Senate floor, I'm electing someone for how they will vote on the Senate floor.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The funny thing is…there is actually a story there but it’s more about media censorship.
Maybe there is some corruption and it does warrant some sort of investigation.
However, it is not the gunman on the grassy knoll.
Hell, it’s not even keeping classified documents at your Florida fuck pad.
The smart thing for Democrats to do would be to acknowledge that, yeah maybe there is some fuckery with Hunter but c’mon y’all, this is really all you got?
Hunters dad was the VP at the time he was using drugs and making millions.
Now, I don’t think this is as big a deal as many of the crazy trump things but it does merit some amount of scrutiny.
Democrats acting like nothing at all was wrong with Hunter Biden is just a little silly.
We shouldn’t be afraid to say “let’s look into this, it seems bad” especially when their dudes 1000 times worse.
I agree but since Republicans are going to do it anyone I have an opinion on the right way for Democrats to message this, which is of course unpopular with people on the far left.
He’s the son of an elected official who is now president.
That’s why it matters to some folks.
Ignoring this fact is just head in sand burying and does nothing to combat the very wrong conservative narrative.
You have to take the 100 foot view here, the best strategy is the one that wins while looking good.
It looks good to stake out a strong position against corruption and then be vindicated when your guy turns out to not be as corrupt as opponents say he is.
I think that’s true for the red party voters who consume red party media but it’s not true for swing voters and the many cross pressured voters in swing states that are aware of the outsized importance of their vote.
Media and perception are real things and the stuff politicians do to influence them are real.
In general, being right about stuff and having a clear position that has common cause with American democratic values is still a winner.
I’m a gun owner but I’m for fairly expansive gun control laws (because progressive), however I think the cosmetic stuff is stupid.
It should just be harder to buy an assault rifle and to have a clip over 10 rounds.
I think of it like a drivers license where certain certifications require extra tests and qualifications.
I think recent elections have shown that across most of America, the fringe right is not a popular platform, so it's more of a GOP problem than it is a Democrat problem when she gets attention.
So to that effect I think it's best if the Democrats continue to ignore her, because the quickest way to unite the GOP base is to provide a common enemy.
I agree with you about dropping the current stance.
The best play that is available to progressives is strict enforcement of current gun laws.
We have lots of great gun laws that have very lax enforcement.
It’s an easy law and order play that doesn’t get hung up on the silly argument of how scary a gun looks.
There's no winning, because all the right cares about is triggering the left.
So if you give her attention they'll continue supporting her just because she's getting a response.
If you ignore her it allows her to go unchecked.