Hello, Reddit!
My name is Adam Winkler and I'm a scholar of constitutional law, the Supreme Court and gun law.
I've taught constitutional law and led Supreme Court simulations at UCLA School of Law for two decades.
The recent spate of mass shootings in the U.S., and in particular California, are what led me to this Reddit AMA.
I hope I can provide some useful commentary about the historical and modern interpretations of U.S. gun laws, the future of assault weapons bans, the implications of New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. Bruen, and/or any other topics the community wishes to discuss.
I’m happy to take questions on other aspects of constitutional law unrelated to guns as well.
A bit more about me: My scholarship has been cited in landmark Supreme Court cases on the First and Second Amendments (Citizens United v. FEC and McDonald v. City of Chicago).
Just over a decade ago, I looked at the history of America's conflict over gun control in my book, Gunfight: The Battle Over the Right to Bear Arms in America.
My most recent book, which came out in 2018, is called We the Corporations: How American Businesses Won Their Civil Rights and was a finalist for the National Book Award, the National Book Critics Circle Award, and other awards.
If you're interested, you can learn more here:
I’m being assisted by u/michaeldirda from UCLA's communications office but will be responding to all of your questions myself.
Please ask away!
I will start answering questions at 11:30 a.m. pacific time.
EDIT 1 p.m.: Hey folks!
Mike here from UCLA's communications office.
Professor Winkler needed to head to out, but he asked me to share his appreciation for all of the really high-quality questions and the good discussion.
Hope you enjoyed the session - and thanks to the mods for helping us get this organized.
Current AWB's are based on lots of physical attributes to rifles that make no sense.
Features such as folding or telescoping stock, pistol grip, bayonet mount, and flash hider or threaded barrel designed to accommodate one are banned by legislators with very little knowledge of their subject matter.
For example, vertical foregrips are not ok but angled foregrips are ok.
More importantly, why is the focus on banning rifles when handguns are responsible for the vast majority of gun deaths?
See my answer earlier on why these laws are bad policy.
In my book Gun Fight, I discuss the appearances issue with assault weapons bans.
I'd add that one reason GVP advocates focus on these weapons not handguns is because the Supreme Court has held in the Heller case that we have a constitutional right to have handguns.
So what sense would it make to try to regulate those?