it also means the chinese satellite technology is not very good if they have to use balloons.
US does not use balloons because we don't have to.
Peter Zeihan talked about how stupid these balloons are today.
He is a well respected foreign policy analyst.
He said its just a dumb decision by the chinese.
He explained why they did it.
They are trying to learn how to scale up their nuclear deterant by seeing what the US does.
Good Satellites can see all this.
There is actually some good reasoning for using these balloons.
Extremely low cost, has characteristics in the air that aren’t picked up easily by radar (unique altitude level, speed, direction, what it emits, etc), low risk in terms of damage and technology lost if it crashes somewhere you don’t want it too.
They've happened a bunch of times before and many countries didn't notice until looking back, they could fly way higher than any fighter can get, and they can't be shot down over any population at all.
US just came out and said they haven’t picked up these enough in the past as their radar wasn’t tuned to find them.
there is no risk in terms of damage with satellites.
zero.
no it shows weakness.
Peter Zeihan talked about it today on his youtube channel.
It also shows how stupid the chinese foreign policy is.
Zeihan is a well respected foreign policy analyst.
If balloons were useful, the US would use them over china.
We did not even use them in the 1950s or 1960s we used the U2 and the SR-71 during the cold war.
And if someone catches on - float that shit over populated areas straight out to the ocean.
Evidence gone.
A topographical map of the ocean floor will show you exactly why China sent the balloon into wind currents headed that direction.
They were certainly trying to make sure the payload ended up in deep waters where recovery would be most difficult.
The fact that countries that have tense relationships with China have known about these things for years and not done anything about them says to me that they might actually be weather research platforms.
Either that or we know what intel they're gathering and don't care.
The only reason the US shot one down is because the public saw it and wouldn't like "It's from China, but it's not a threat" as an answer.