In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It was military spouses who fought for this, because they didn't want some of their money going to the deceased veteran's children from a prior marriage.
Hopefully it will be changed back, or some compromise can be reached.
A law voted in 2020 is taking survivor benefits from the children of servicemembers killed in action.
The families losing the benefits found out only a month ago that the December 2022 payment will be the last one.
They used to, but as of January 2023, only surviving spouses will get survivor benefits, even if the children have been receiving benefits for years.
The only way children can get the benefit is if there is no surviving spouse or the surviving spouse becomes ineligible (remarries before age 55).
I started a Go Fund Me for the family in hopes of paying off their house.
I don’t want to see their kids hurt again.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
We have written them.
No response in a month.
The investigative reporter got ahold of Kaine (you can see his response in the video).
I’m sharing this story everywhere I can do that people can write to their own congressmen to ask for something to be done.
This family isn’t the only one affected.
There are other families out there losing everything because of this.
This is unfortunate.
The reason is that the father who was a service member remarried right before his death, so his kids mother was no longer the surviving spouse.
They’ve been receiving benefits since 2017.
He had opted for the kids and his surviving spouse to get benefits.
The government just changed the rules and aren’t grandfathering the kid’s already receiving benefits.
I see how this is a difficult law to craft because there could be times where someone remarried and died 20 years later, in which case it may be the current wife and kids who need the benefits.
I'm not defending the policy, or anything, just pointing out a possible legislative difficulty on this issue.