>The Russian flag and the Z symbol have been strictly prohibited from the Australian Open site.
But they still made their way to Melbourne Park on Wednesday.
It remains to be seen if the Australian Open will react.
He really is, and it hurts my soul because he is the tennis machine that people thought Pete Sampras was.
He is absolutely the best tennis player I've ever seen and I've seen all of the others back to 1990.
How in the world did you come to the conclusion that he’s a friend to any fascist groups?
I can’t tell if you simply lack common sense or you legit read this somewhere.
But he is stupid, vain, arrogant and a friend to any fascist group that wants him as their ubermench.
Its disgusting.
Unfortunately for everyone involved it ended up in the wrong place.
Djokovic was defaulted accordingly and learned a (valuable) lesson.
Djokovic signed a shirt with his, Jokic's and Messi's name on it.
The guy who handed him the shirt over the Putin shirt.
The guy should obviously have been thrown out, but you can't expect the players to know everything that goes on in the stands during a match.
I wouldn't exactly call hitting a ball blindly towards the back of the court to "attack" someone.
That requires intent in my book.
Hell, I’m Polish.
If I were to look for a "hidden agenda" whenever someone reports on a shitty thing that a Polish person (our or government) does, I’d go insane.
I know I really like Emir Kusturica as a filmmaker and I respect Djokovic as one of the best tennis players in history.
Also, I actually checked some polls online to try and appease you by adding them to the bottom of my post, to provide some perspective.
>Ok, so then let me give you an example.
Let’s say that someone took a picture of some Polish fans at a soccer game who were waving a N-zi flag.
And then I posted the picture to “World News” with no explanation.
For someone stupid looking at this from Malaysia for example, ehrte they might not know much about Poland, they might think well since this is posted in World News, it must represent the views of a majority of Polish people and that they are all N-zis, otherwise why would anyone post this to World News?
You see how this can come across to some people who are not informed on these matters?
That is the same situation with this post.
If you post a nationwide poll from Serbia about this, I have absolutely nothing against it, as that is a fact.
However, this post is doing nothing but stirring anti-Serbian hatred, and on behalf of Serbian people everywhere, I would kindly ask you to delete it and post a nationwide poll or something similar on the matter, which is more factual and actually representative of the majority of people’s opinions.
That said, I 100% agree that there are probably many, many Serbs who don't support Putin.
But again, any thinking person is aware of that.
I don't mind him, to be honest.
Obviously, I don't love him as much as I love Nadal, but I respect him, even though he is a bit weird.
That said, I know a lot of people can't stand him.