In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
In the popular imagination, patriot is a right-wing term, redolent of camo, pickup trucks, and guns.
To Moore, that’s an outrage.
“I’m just truly offended when I hear people call themselves patriots whose definition is trying to destroy democracy,” he tells me.
“What’s patriotic about trying to overturn elections?
What’s patriotic about saying that your neighbors don’t deserve support?
I’m not just confused by it.
I’m amazingly bothered and pissed off by it.
Because I know what patriotism is.
I’ve seen it with my own eyes.
I saw it with the paratroopers that I led in combat, people who were exemplifying bravery every single day.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
"For Democrats, the promise Moore represents can’t come too soon.
The party’s stronger-than-expected midterms did little to quell its underlying angst: an aging cast of top leaders, a widening cultural gulf with working-class voters, and a brand yoked in the public mind to unpopular left-wing ideas.
Biden’s own pollster, John Anzalone, warned Democrats in a post-midterm memo not to take too much credit for 2022’s successes, which were primarily the result of Republicans’ deficiencies.
Liberal scholar Ruy Teixeira says many Democrats’ tendency to see the worst in America puts them at odds with the mainstream.
“It’s very popular among large sectors of the left to talk about how fundamentally we’re a benighted country, white supremacist, bigoted and oppressive,” Teixeira says.
“This just isn’t where most people are coming from.
Most people are proud to be Americans.”.