In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
As we are collectively driving our young to suicide in disturbing numbers, maybe that should be a cause for reflection, maybe a sign that some things have gone fundamentally wrong and should be examined.
See, a healthy, functional, genuinely democratic society would be capable of learning, changing, evolving, accurately diagnosing, and actually solving its problems and improving its conditions.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
There are too many people with a vested interest in the problem - creating the problem, ignoring the problem, misdiagnosing the problem, "treating" the problem.
It's like we're all engaged in a collective gaslighting about our actual problems and shared reality.
Can we admit that young people are arriving increasingly late to an already rigged and corrupt game of Monopoly, meaning this great nation eats its young and those at the bottom of the "food chain" for the profits of an extremely and increasingly abusive ruling class?
Can we admit that the corruption in our institutions and our economic and political systems create abusive and unlivable conditions for so many people, which get diagnosed and written off as individual "mental health" problems?
Many politicians are haters, corrupt and fueled by greed and power.
Add in some more elements and it's a toxic brew.
Many kids face no chance of success.
I'm also 30 and have been dealing with suicidal thoughts since high school.
9/11 was my introduction to politics and I haven't felt optimistic for the future of this country since.
It reminds of that line from Chernobyl, "When the truth offends, we lie and lie until we can no longer remember it is even there, but it is still there.
Every lie we tell incurs a debt to the truth.
Sooner or later, that debt is paid.
".
Also as a fellow Utahn being surrounded by a bunch of 24 year olds who are married homeowners with kids makes it hard not to feel like you're behind.