In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If the GOP can't even agree on a Speaker, I can't see how they'll avoid 5 defections to fund the government/raise the debt ceiling (especially if those 5 get something for their districts out of it).
Then the GOP will take 100% of the blame for the government shutdown/debt ceiling crisis.
Can't blame Biden if they've never even passed anything for him to sign to end it.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Can, will, and SHOULD.
Biden needs to step up and start actively being involved in stopping Republican bullshit.
His entire platform hinged on the idea that Republicans had enough good eggs left in the basket that reasonable negotiations were, and are, still possible.
If Biden cannot stop the GOP from being political terrorists, then it means we need a new President who can.
I mean, yes, but the hope is they won't INTENTIONALLY do it, or make any economic crash deliberately worse, just to "own the libs".
How many "don't worry, this time Republicans won't do insanely destructive shit," articles will be written and proven wrong before we stop pretending that destroying society until it can all be privatized is their central goal?
Like, we just got done with the "Roberts will make sure the Supreme Court won't make women 2nd class citizens," articles.
And before that, it was how "Maybe this time Trump will pivot to being a functioning adult."
And "Bush won't invade Iraq just bc everyone in the cabinet he picked wrote a book advocating invasion."
I remember these articles all the way back to the 90s.
Turns out Republicans always do the worst possible thing.