In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Oh yes we definitely want that, but I think here the secret service is lying about not keeping any records at Marlago or Trump tower and protecting him from possible political and legal troubles, but quick to hand shit over with Biden.
This is a sign that many Trump holdovers in the secret service are not playing honest and have nefarious intentions.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yep, so Biden is right to fear the secret service people because they ARE out to undermine him.
I believe the same can be said about some in the DOJ.
The secret service claimed they kept no records or info of visitors at Mar Lago or Trump tower.
But here they are saying with Biden they do.
This is abhorrent and I wouldn't put it past them, but - Devil's Advocate - could they not have adopted the process after being made aware that it was necessary?
The Secret Service, as well as most law enforcement in this country, needs an overhaul to get the Trump stench out of it.
Trump encouraged authoritarians who abused their power, and many of them are still in positions of power.
Supporting Trump isn't illegal.
Acting in a biased, unethical, or illegal way because of that support, or any other personal opinion, or voicing support for such actions, however, means you should not be in a position of authority.
So, put them on administrative leave in groups, then do a thorough background check and finanical check to look for any signs of unethical or illegal behavior, and fire those who appear compromised.
Return those who pass to work, and move on to the next block.
Do this at every level from junior agents to senior commanders.
Do it for all law enforcement agencies.
That's definitely part of it.
Law enforcement attracts proto-fascists, which is why it's extremely important to have high standards in hiring for such roles.
Trump didn't create these people, he didn't bring them all in as new hires, but he emboldened them, got them speaking out, and this helps create informal organization within a group or even takeover of the formal organization by proto-fascists.