In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
They will know exactly how much you’ll be willing to pay to stay alive, not have a permanently disfigured broken arm, a facial scar, diabetes, cancer, etc.
Soon, through your metadata, they will know what you make a year AND how much you have across your bank and retirement accounts (because they run them all) they know exactly how much you can pay without having your lights turned off, because their buddy that runs the light utility tells everyone’s buddy Metadata^tm how often you pay your bill, which coupled with the other 15000 points of info they have on you….
Just wait for the part where Republicans declare public pensions unconstitutional and tax private retirement accounts after removing all consequences for vulture capitalists who purposely underfund/cut corporate retirement plans.
Sorry, but I don’t trust ANY Republican politician, no matter what they say, to actually have my back when it comes to SS and Medicare.
They have a bad habit/record of talking out of both sides of their mouths.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Actuary science is scary as af when metadata is involved.
A company I worked for started using metadata on their retail customers 25 years ago, associated with their card numbers, just as debit cards first took off, and paper checks were just starting to die off.
I knew it was genuinely unethical then, as an undergrad in the corporate side.
It was talked about in hushed tones by everyone except us in legal who had a huge problem with it.