In the interview, he admitted Exxon-Mobil has been lobbying congress to kill clean energy initiatives and spreading misinformation to the public via front organisations.
Watch this stunning video of Chevron executives explaining why they thought they could dump 16 billion gallons of cancer-causing oil waste into the Amazon.
My great-great grandfather was a bootlegger during Prohibition, made a shit ton of money.
When the Dust Bowl/Great Depression hit, he had the cash to buy a ton of real estate and businesses, opened a factory, etc.
The family became quite wealthy.
And, like the bunch of white trash degenerates they were, most of them boozed, gambled, and squandered it all, grandma included.
One of her favorite stories is from the '60s when she was approached by a group wanting her to invest with them in building apartments/condos in a sleepy little mountain town called "Aspen".
Her reply, "That's the middle of nowhere, nobody goes up there!"
Good call, grandma.
""Sure, cried the tenant men, but it’s our land…We were born on it, and we got killed on it, died on it.
Even if it’s no good, it’s still ours….That’s what makes ownership, not a paper with numbers on it.
".
"No, you’re wrong there—quite wrong there.
The bank is something else than men.
It happens that every man in a bank hates what the bank does, and yet the bank does it.
The bank is something more than men, I tell you.
It’s the monster.
Men made it, but they can’t control it.
"".
Haha, nope.
Not a cent.
During my mom's upbringing all my grandma had left was one small apartment building right near where University of Denver is, they lived in one apartment and rented out the rest.
That property is worth millions now.
Grandma loved the tables though, and ended up selling it sometime in the 70s.
All i inherited were cautionary tales to keep me away from gambling, and prompting me to live well under my means.
My grandparents used the company as their own personal bank and one of my uncles, the one my grandfather sent to college to be an accountant, embezzled from the business as soon as he came on board.
My grandfather ran a successful construction company that specialized in sewer and curb construction.
They rebuilt the curbs and sewers in entire towns in 1950-1970s central and NW Ohio.
And guess what?
All that was left in the end was what they sold of the fleet, equipment and the garage where everything was stored/ repaired.
A lot of us go to work every day working for a company with those elite folks at the top.
We've told ourselves it's okay to push their products and values because we have worked hard for this and are only looking out for our families.
Be happy you took that lesson to heart.
I work too hard for my money to piss it away on lotto and gambling.
I dated a guy with gambling issues and I kept it casual with him because of it.
I had another who wanted to date me, but when I found out he once got beat up by his bookie’s muscle man, I steered clear of him as well.
Nice guy, too.
I want The Sopranos to stay on the TV, not come into my life.
I feel that people in any position will convince themselves they're doing the right thing when they can benefit from it and get away with it.
I don't think they (the elite) explicitly think "I am going to screw my fellow man over" just to screw their fellow man over just like the everyday man doesn't.
That's an elementary idea and way too easy to swallow, imo.
Not a social scientist or psychology expert, but I calls it as I sees it is unless convinced otherwise.
"I've worked hard and I deserve this", "I am looking out for my family", etc can show a very different picture depending on what side of the fence you are on.
Being high up on the socual or professional ladder doesn't make you an inherently bad person.
We all do horrible things to the best of our capacity.
I don't look at the elite as any different.
I get it, no one want to be a poor.
We are conditioned to chase the dollar and only look at our immediate family to place our concerns.
The way to get out of all this is to renounce materialism as a big start.