In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The Pentagon is considering shooting down the suspected Chinese surveillance balloon that has been floating over the United States for several days, U.S. officials said Saturday.
As the balloon approached the Atlantic Ocean, the FAA, citing an unspecified security situation, announced ground stops for all flights in and out of Wilminon, N.C., Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Charleston, S.C., until 3:30 p.m.
In a statement, the agency said the ground stop was to “support the Department of Defense in a national security effort.”.
The Defense Department is still assessing its next moves, one senior U.S. official said Saturday afternoon.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
President Biden, appearing earlier in Syracuse, N.Y., said tersely “We’re gonna take care of it,” when asked about the ongoing situation.
The balloon was brought down just off the Atlantic Coast, shortly after the Federal Aviation Administration, citing an unspecified security situation, announced ground stops for all flights in and out of Wilminon, N.C., Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Charleston, S.C.
Meanwhile, multiple military aircraft loitered along the Atlantic coast of North and South Carolina on Saturday afternoon in the vicinity of those cities, according to the aircraft tracking site ADS-B Exchange.
A U.S. military aircraft on Saturday downed the suspected Chinese surveillance balloon that had been floating over the United States for several days, according to eyewitness video circulating on social media.
In a statement, the agency said the ground stop was to “support the Department of Defense in a national security effort.”.
The balloon was disclosed to the public on Thursday after appearing over Montana the day before, prompting a temporary stoppage of all flights out of the airport in Billings.
On Friday a second Chinese spy balloon was spotted over Latin America, the Pentagon said.
U.S. officials say there is likely a third such balloon conducting surveillance in another part of the world.
What was China thinking?
Of course, the balloon would be seen, and the US would respond.
Was this meant to embarrass Biden or to embarrass Xi?
It just does not make sense to me.