That is what I was worrying about.
I was wondering if anybody had done reviews on their research and math, and signed off on something that, if done wrong, could have cataclysmic consequences.
Is Dr. Doom or Lex Luthor the Founder of this startup?
I have no doubt that those are the findings because such research would consider the worst-case outcome, which I agree would be disastrous.
I haven't seen the literature myself.
Thanks for the advice, I went and I researched it and can now say this isn't dumb as shit.
Its evil as fuck!
I just went to their website to look at who’s involved but the only thing I could see was who their backers are.
It’s like a bunch of 30 yo “VC entrepreneurs.” Ya, we’re fucked.
In the film/comic of Snow piercer a bunch of scientist create an ice age trying go stop global warming.
I'm no scientist or have even studied the effects of artificially injected chemicals on the climate/environment.
This is an interesting ethical scenario.
Should a government, which holds the power to, yet does next to nothing to seriously make a difference to emissions and pollution, have the right to condemn another entity which is taking action, regardless of the motivation?
I feel it's irrelevant that they are for-profit, especially when the vast majority of the private sector literally works against humanity's interests when unregulated.
So, considering that the worst-case scenario could be very bad, it's probably not a good idea and isn't worth the risk, at least before extensive research, ensuring safety and proving viability.
But... a proverbial government whose lack of action is the reason for the existence of the startup can politely shut the F up, unless said government wants to stop being an obstruction and start helping with a solution.
1) This type of geoengineering isn't a solution to global warming but rather a time extension at best.
The idea of blocking sunlight to "cool" the earth by releasing chemicals along the equator has been around for some time.
But the vast majority of academies agree that it won't fix anything.
It can in theory buy us some time by possibly slowing down the effects of global warming.
So the reduction or eradication of fossil fuels is still the key.
Selling it as the solution is blatantly false but since this is being done by a start up it makes sense.
It is cheap and easily marketed as such.
People can buy into just paying some "smart guy" to pump "chemicals" ( Sulfur dioxide or a combination) ontonthe atmosphere than actually changing the current industrial world.
Due to the "duel time bomb" effect we would need to constantly need to pump chemicals into the atmosphere.
Which would effectively make the world hostage to the company doing the geoengineering.
They would make ridiculous profits while knowing that it isn't a solution.
Millions if not billions of people would be put at risk if this is carried out.
Famine could occur leading to geopolitical tensions between nations leading to wars and more deaths.
Not to mention the "duel time bombs" of global warming still coming (point 1) and that based on most research swing from back to "natural" weather from tapering the process: will amplify the effects of extreme weather.
The numbers of what time this would give us to eradicate the true causes of global warming range from just 20 years to 50 years.
So it wouldn't even be worth it.
3) This is the Fossil Industry's next big scam.
The process of geoengineering in this way is the cheapest and most profitable ( the company in the article already wants to charge for profit) for them.
This is because it is a false external solution to the crisis that they can easily sell while maintaining their existing fossil fuel business.
The vast majority of climatologists all agree that ( as I pointed out in my first response) it will potentially be even worse that just letting climate change occur.
The "time buying" is in terms of reducing fossil fuel dependency not reducing the effects.
In fact (in first response) the kick back from tapering from this will amplify the extreme weather.
Its basically "fuck around and find out" logic with the caveat " no real scientific community is willing to carry out large scale test because of the ramifications so maybe, who knows".
Almost every democratic nation and territory on earth has voted to address climate change.
The dictatorship is the fossil fuel industry and actual dictators in OPEC+ are the ones stopping any real action.
Some sick part of me actually wants them to do it, just so I can laugh at the stupidity and greed.
Fuck around and find out.