In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Basically for 50 years, Republicans called Dems Socialist and no one really believed them because all they can point to is "social security" and "medicare" which most Latinos(even Cubans) support.
Thats how Clinton and Obama was able to win Miami Dade by great margins by focusing on issues like taxes such that young Cubans swung pretty hard to Dems.
However AOC and Bernie being the "face" of the dem party really hurt Dems since they call themselves socialists and Bernie went to even defend Castro regime in one of the debates.
Cubans and Venezuelans in Florida hates socialism for pretty obvious reason.
The large influx of Cubans escaping the regime who are all very anti-left be ause of it.
Florida is basically a red state at this point, Texas is slowly becoming the purple one.
Yeah I get that, but I would say Bernie and AOC’s brand of Democratic socialism is WAY closer to center left on a world stage, and not really comparable to straight state socialism in any meaningful way.
I guess they just hear the word socialism (From one independent senator and one democratic representative from a small district in NY) and assume all democrats are straight up like pure Marxist level socialists then?
Sounds about right.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
That is the weird thing is if you really go into Bernie and AOC's policy, they aren't "real" socialist.
They are probably closer to social democats in nordic countries.
It is weird that they hold on to that label despite it being very toxic in US environment and extremely toxic in Florida.
They officially call themselves “democratic socialists” here in the US.
They do not call themselves Socialist.
Basically equal to the social democrats you mentioned.
It’s just that conservatives hear the word socialist at all and run with it, and many think Social democrat means socialist, and socialism = communism.
I’m not joking.