In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The growing list of people that have testified in Fulton have made this one of the highest profile state criminal investigations in American history.
It includes:
Sort of.
The fifth can still be invoked to protect you from incrimination in a grand jury, but it's not a "get out of testimony card" that many believe it is.
Along with 15 criminal targets that compose various positions in the GA state government in regards to a fake elector scheme.
The DA is supposedly weighing election fraud, conspiracy, oath of office violations, racketeering and other offenses, and indicated a decision on charges could come as early as the end of the year.
In a trial the jury is instructed to draw no conclusions from someone pleading the fifth, it can’t be used as a reason to convict someone.
In a grand jury they are told that if someone pleading the fifth creates a greater probability a crime was committed they can indict based on that fact.
Invoking the 5th implies that you have that privilege, and the person being deposed is usually without their legal counsel in the room at the time.
The judge overseeing the court can still attempt to compel or order your testimony if they believe you do not have privilege, and prosecutors can take steps such as offering immunity deals for cooperation.
I believe that's when someone invokes the fifth in a civil trial.
A good example was Trump's testimony before the NY AG for the civil case where he pleaded the fifth for hours on end, which was a questionable strategy that may backfire on him.
Depending on the case being civil or criminal, pleading the fifth can be seen/viewed as abject inference and an implication of guilt which is up to the jury.
It depends on the type of case, criminal or civil.
In a civil criminal case the fifth is fine to plea, and is a right a defendant can use.
In a criminal civil case, if the fifth is pleaded, the jury can use abject/adverse inference to determine that the defendant is basically hiding things and can still prosecute/ find the defendant guilty.
It all depends on the case, and there are so many against trump and trump Org at this point, I have no idea if this specific one is criminal or civil.
Jurors are instructed and made aware by the judge that they at not make an inference in criminal trials.
No one is a mind reader though.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Maybe I have those backwards, but I think I got it right.
Tell you what, these last few years have really taught me a lot about our court systems I never knew before.
I’ll give trump credit for that… I guess….
I’m not a fancy lawyer, I just listen to a lot of law podcasts by prominent ones.
Preet, Popok, Meiselis, Agnifulo, Legal Eagle too, but Popok and Meiselis are my favorites.
They’ve been like 9-1 for all of their legal predictions for rulings and verdicts on large cases they cover.
They’re like lawyer’s lawyers level.