In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Considering that the operators aren’t in danger themselves, they could think more calmly, and also take bigger risks when subduing non-lethally (ie tazing instead of shooting when you’re not sure if the suspect has a weapon).
I've seen videos of well-trained people controlling a gun impressively.
I haven't seen people controlling a robotic gun with a joystick very well.
This raises my question of whether more innocent lives are saved this way?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
1.
Can a robot de-escalate a situation like a human can?
Preferably avoid any shooting in the first place.
Yeah the calmness is definitely a factor.
From a lot of police reports I've seen those guys get scared shitless, rightfully so with all the degenerates they deal with on a daily basis.
Less than lethal would be a cool idea.
Tazer, fill the room with pepper spray, etc.
That would bypass a lot of my concerns.
2.
If a robot is used, then the officer's life won't be in danger.
So there goes that reason to shoot.
2.
If the robot is human-controlled, then I think the effectiveness is compromised.
I can't see a human-controlled robot outperforming a human to save innocents from an aggressor.
The officer may be safer but is the innocent person safer?
Not likely.
1.
This raises the question of what's more important: the officer's safety or the innocent person's safety?
I just don't see a guy with a joystick outperforming a trained person very well though.
It would require a lot of research to test its effectiveness.
All I've seen so far is "robots with guns" which could just as easily be a human firing the weapon remotely.
I'm not saying it may not be problematic.
I just dont see a proposal for an army of T-1000s patrolling SF mowing down parking violators.
What I had in mind is a hostage situation.
That's where I see the best debate for using a robot.
An innocent life is in danger.
How should they handle it and can a robot aid in this?
Will the innocent person's life be better protected as a result?
Your social credit score was reduced because you didn't see the new disney movie, visited websites they don't approve of, and went to a local protest.
Please conduct actions and purchases with "verified" corporations that will keep you in good standing.