In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
i have learned over the past couple of decades that you should only pay so much attention to polling numbers.
its not gospel by any means.
It seems like both are begrudgingly accepted by their party.
The difference is Biden is competent.
Democrats want someone younger and more progressive and charming.
But they have Biden and they begrudgingly accept it because he is a capable president.
Republicans want someone that is not yet found to be a moron and a grifter.
They want grifters and they can only attract morons, so they have to go with ignorance of just how stupid and corrupt they are in order to back them.
Trump is known to be these things so they can’t pretend they don’t know.
you know i think theres merit in the discussion on this topic.
But as more time has gone on and Biden has found his footing as president.
Especially over this last year, i am finding myself caring less and less about his old age.
As much as Republicans like to try and make him out as some sleepy old grandpa character.
he shows absolutely none of the signs of cognitive decline we saw in Reagan.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
now, thats not to say that couldn't change as time goes on.
but for now i am fine with Joe at the helm and will enthusiastically vote for him again in the next election, should he choose to run.
(and lets be honest, barring major health issues, he's gonna run again).
most people dont generally pay that much attention to politics and as both Trump, and fox news shows, if you repeat a lie enough, eventually people start beleiving you.
if you dont pay attention its easy to buy into the "old sleepy joe" propaganda and feel like he hasnt gotten anything done.
i find this to be a fairly prevalent view, even among dems.
i have no doubt this perception plays a role in approval ratings numbers.
but to those of us that have been paying attention its been honestly releiving to see such a competant steady hand at the helm.
if it doesn't make it, all thats going to do is deligitimize the supreme court even further in the eyes of the younger generation.
but Biden did try to get it done and therefore i dont think it would exactly be perceived negatively for him amongst the youth.
Voter apathy is a real thing, when younger generations get ignored in favor of those who vote.
Guess who votes, those who get favor.