What's even more frustrating about Amazon is trying to find reputable manufacturers.
If I have to wade through another three pages of identical but differently branded cheaply made Chinese brands with nonsensical names like KGUILIFE or something to try and find the actual quality items buried in the middle, I'm going to scream.
Quality example - in Blade Runner the author introduces kipple.
Too bad it was not mentioned in popular adaptations to keep people unaware of their consumption.
Kipple is a word coined by the remarkable science fiction writer Philip K. Dick.
It refers to the sinister type of rubbish which simply builds up without any human intervention.
Eventually, one day, the entire world will have moved to a state of kipplization.
Yeah if you use it for that it might be worth it.
I was annoyed because we were using it for PBS kids which is the regular Amazon subscription price plus another 4.99 a month and once you cancel prime you can't do the PBS kids stuff..like you can't just pay 4.99 and forget the rest of the prime content.
Kind of a bummer but I found a script that scrapes the content off the free PBS kids website and I just collect that and keep it on a media server now.
Yeah, Amazon sucks.
We've had prime for years, but ever since COVID our orders take like 7 to 10 days to get here.
The products are prime, they ship from Amazon warehouses, and while technically it is "2 day shipping" they don't actually ship for 5 days or more.
We just cancelled prime and our stuff still gets here in the same amount of time and the shipping is free....so like, why even have prime.
I sometimes use it.
The prices are from time to time better, always good to have extra choice.
Two, there are some items which are not available on Allegro, or they're significantly cheaper on Amazon (mainly technical foreign books).
And three, Prime doesn't have a lower price limit so I can order a small item and have it delivered for free.
On Allegro Smart you pay a delivery fee on orders below 45 złoty.