I will say what he is doing has become somewhat overshadowed by the war.
While we all knew how Russia treats dissidents, it was still a huge message for him to willingly be arrested and show the world what they're capable of, and very publicly.
But now Russia is literally torturing, raping, and murdering women and children.
I'm not saying people aren't capable of caring about multiple atrocities at once (what's happening to him and what's happening in Ukraine), but he has gotten considerably less coverage when Russia is displaying to the world everyday how horrible they are.
Also if the Russian people do not care that their own brothers and sons and husbands are being killed in the tens of thousands "for the motherland/one man's ego", then they certainly do not care about what is happening to the opposition.
I can appreciate the absolute balls and bravery it took to martyr yourself for a freer Russia.
But it is unfortunately in vain.
The Russian people are not ready for change yet (even more independent polls show a majority still support both Putin and the war), but hopefully this war speeds that process along.
All that being said, Navalny is not a good leader for Russia either.
He's simply better than what they have.
But he still won't say that Crimea is Ukrainian and he is also very conservative, so he would be a better Putin.
Which is a very, very low bar.
I mean, it is still adding weight to the pile.
“Navalny was right, Putin does have to go and our government is corrupt” is very dangerous to Russia.
It’s possible Putin pushed into this war haphazardly in part because Navalny was gaining momentum in Russia as well.
That has always been Putin’s answer to losing public support.
He just bit off more than he can chew and Russia choked on Ukraine.
Yeah I hope it didn't come off like I was disagreeing with you or anything.
It's just been interesting to see him be more of an afterthought in press coverage of Russia because of everything else going on now.
He would still be leagues better than Putin because he probably wouldn't have declared an all out war on a neighbor.
Russia still wouldn't be great for human rights but I'd like to hope Navalny wouldn't imprison opposition after having experienced it himself.
Dude, Navalny was a pain in the butt for the West.
Imagine Navalny somehow becomes the Russian president.
On one hand he will fight corruption, most of which is selling oil and gas to the west for kickbacks.
On the other hand he will be very tough on security, military, Crimea and such.
So the cheap and corrupt resources will be eliminated and a strong competitor arises.
Imagine the same situation as today but the Russian army is not corrupt and much more technologically advanced.
Guess why Navalny wasn't getting much coverage.
And you are so right in that second paragraph.
Leaders due tend to opt for war as a way to regain support.
There had to be something going on for Putin to not be satisfied with "just" taking Crimea and part of the Donbas.