In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yea So he has to have his daughter raise epi pen prices by 300 and something percent, managing to get herself a CEO job of some Mylan shadow company without any experience.
I do wish he'd actually vote for the climate change stuff and whatnot, but he's a thousand times better than a Republican.
He's in a state that is like 80% Trump supporters.
I don't care what he calls himself as long as he keeps voting to confirm Biden's judges, keeps Dems as the majority party, and votes for all but the most ambitious Dem bills like he always does.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is more or less the same old same old from Manchin.
I don't think this is proof that something has fundamentally changed with him.
Probably nothing to be concerned about beyond the typical issues with Manchin.
Let’s stop pretending Joe and his entire family is anything but giant pieces of shit, and while it benefits us currently, he’s still a POS that is just on the side that benefits him currently, and if that changed he would flip 250 percent yes.
It doesn’t matter what he truly is, because historically, him and Sinema are shit, and I’d rather be able to see the snakes in the grass, than have the grass grow too long to see them in the first place.
Acting like he’s pragmatic and actually a democrat is foolish, and the equivalent of us just not cutting the grass, pointing out his intentions is making sure we keep our eyes on the snakes, because a snake can’t bite if we keep our distance, but we can only keep said distance, if we know where they truly are.
He knows his electorate because he is his electorate.
Supports dems when it benefits him, but when it doesn’t, like climate change, suddenly him or his son being in the oil industry he doesn’t give a shit what dems think.