I think there’s an issue here that’s easy to miss amidst all the emotive mud slinging and that’s that Ngozi Fulani seems to be a genuinely awful person and to be very well deserving of criticism.
In particular, it appears from the publicly available accounts that the charity she runs is primarily for her own enrichment since she pays out almost all donations as her salary and personal expenses (she wasn’t attending the event at Buckingham Palace for her own charity work - she was there as someone else’s plus one), she has a history of denying help and even being abusive to domestic abuse victims on the grounds that they are mixed race rather than black, and she has previously publicly accused the royal family of domestic abuse against Meghan Markle without any evidence whatsoever (which raises obvious questions about whether she really attended the event in good faith in the first place).
She is also getting a lot of criticism for cultural appropriation and deception because she changed her name from Marlene Headley to Ngozi Fulani (a Nigerian name) and dresses in an overtly west African style in spite of having no connection to west Africa herself.
She was born in London and her parents migrated to the UK from Barbados.
For anyone not familiar with the story, I'd urge you look up their exchange.
It was racist and xenophobic as fuck.
Whether she is really the victim of racism (on balance it appears to me that she was) isn’t the issue here because being the victim of racism doesn’t excuse any of the things for which she is being criticised.
The fact that she has reacted in such a childish, opportunistic, attention-seeking and downright malicious way is just further evidence of her poor character.
The most incredibly racist people I have ever met was when I was in the US Air Force serving with the Brits.
I grew up in Arkansas and thought THAT was bad.
Oh hell no, the UK takes being a bigot to a whole new level.
They did the same thing the Madeline Albright when she was a child fleeing the Nazis and the Communists.
“Oh we are so sorry you are going through this… when do you think you will go home?” Where as her American experience “Oh I am so sorry you are going through this… when will you become Americans?”.