1.
Researchers must get permission to collect native plants or animals, in the form of a WA biodiversity Certificate.
They also need permission of the lands owner if applicable.
2. if traditional knowledge leads to a discovery, and it is likely to make money, the researcher must make an agreement with the knowledge holder on how to split the profits.
If it doesn’t make money but still used traditional knowledge the researcher must state that to the WA government.
Traditional knowledge available in the public domain does not count.
Natives don’t have control over who can grow and use these plants, or any public available knowledge.
They’re just being given credit / benefits when their traditional knowledge directly results in a bio discovery.
Such as new medicines, new crops, and other discoveries.
Some of these practices and this knowledge has been researched and developed over many thousands of years.
Australia is proud home to the world’s oldest continuous living culture, made up of many dynamic facets, not a mono-culture.
Based on the article it seems that the indigenous people want to own the rights for their traditional medicines because big corporations are using the native peoples’ methods and recipes.
These corporations are making millions of dollars off the native peoples’ traditional medicine and not giving them anything.
The natives want to own it to make sure their community receives the money they deserve for originally creating these medicines.
Placing it in the public domain wouldn’t change anything for them, they still would be left without a cut of the cake.
Just like anything else in the world the people who created this medicine deserve the credit and money for their inventions.
This proposed legislation aims towards justice and equity.
Here’s hoping they can find the right way to move in that direction.
Edit: here’s a draft of the bill for anyone who’s interested.
It explains things brought up in some of the comments better then anyone else explained here.
2.
If traditional knowledge associated with a genetic resource is used for biodiscovery, then the benefits must be shared with the owner of the traditional knowledge.
This must be set out in a benefit sharing agreement negotiated with the traditional knowledge owner, except where the traditional knowledge being used is already in the public domain.
(this article OP linked sucks and doesn’t give any real details about the actual bill) (ignore my reply below and read the actual bill, the bill doesn’t give the natives the IP rights to plants used in traditional medicine, their genetics, or anything else).