In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
is in (between Los Angeles and San Diego) which historically had a strong Republican lean but is now a swing district.
is in Alameda County which includes Oakland, Berkeley, and other cities within the strongly Dem-leaning San Francisco Bay Area.
There's also an incumbency element - Rep. Lee has been in the House since 1998, whereas Rep. Porter won her first House race in 2018.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Think you're right that it would be tough for a generic D to win CA-47.
Orange County is trending more Dem, but decent chance that electing Porter to the Senate would mean Dems lose a seat in the House.
Barbara Lee is the Representative from my district.
In all honesty, her voting record may look good on paper but she hasn’t actually done much.
She will be 78 in 2024; too many members of Congress are long past retirement age and are only concerned about keeping their cushy jobs.
Advancing the careers of younger members of Congress is just a better plan.
No Republican is going to win the 12th District.
That’s a fact.
Katie Porter has been a force of nature in the House, it would be nice to see her moving on to more responsibility.
If she was to be senator from a purple state (and so taking a seat from a republican) then I wholeheartedly agree.
What would Katie bring to the table as a senator that she couldn’t as a house member that is worth more than a house seat - especially when the contrast is another senator from the most progressive state in the nation.
California has 53 House seats (and should actually have more except for gerrymandering), losing one is not as big a priority as having a smart, dynamic Senator from California.
The anti-Dianne Feinstein.
NY and CA already pay for everything, it would be nice to have a Senator who isn’t afraid of corporate interests too.
She is great at oversight, can win republican votes - why is she so much better in the role than another person from the most progressive state?
She’s giving up party power for personal stature in going from winning a near impossible seat to a guaranteed one, when her alternative could be just as progressive or even more so (and I don’t mean just Lee).