ah you mean that shitty libertarian cartoon thanks to which a decade of online discussion on climate change was derailed by LOL MANBEARPIG SUPER SERIAL.
the creators and the audience of that shit are a special kind of stupid.
Hello, I'm one of those "special kind of stupid people", thank you for generalising an entire audience.
Parker and Stone have the most successful satire show ever made, so the following is quite grand.
Finding it stupid because you can't wrap your brain around the nuance behind it.
Maybe it's not the "shit" that's the problem but you.
And you cannot fucking remedy the damage they did by preaching to the choir now that climate change has become widely accepted.
And if climate change did not become widely accepted, you can bet that these libertarian pieces of shit would still make fun of it.
I remember those days before the manbearpig episode.
The whole world was united as one against the looming threat of climate change.
Oil execs, the Saudis, Republicans, had all decided to put the planet over profits.
Walkable communities were being developed, cars were being traded in for bicycles, and even war itself had been put on hold until the world came up with a permanent solution.
I guess they could also make racist episodes where they advocate for the killing of all blacks and you would defend them "CAUSE IT IS JUST A CARTOON".
But then that damn south park episode came out.
Sure it was funny, but at what cost?
The whole world suddenly decided that caring about climate change was actually kinda gay, and went back to their old ways.
A half hour cartoon set the world back decades, dooming us all for a few yuck-yucks.
Our one chance at a green utopia snatched by those greedy comedy writers.
Also I can only remember the death of one black person in the entirety of South Park and it made me cry.
I thought the kids getting stuck in the cave, and then not wanting to climb out because it seems too hard, and instead staying there to consume mass produced items, and then the cave gets flooded, was supposed to be an allegory.