In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
One time I was the victim in a drunk driving accident and the police got me mixed up with someone of a different gender from a different state who had a bunch of warrants...
I shit you not this took me 10 years to clear from my record in the police and court computer systems.
Did I go before a judge you ask?
Why yes I did!
With my ID, and printouts from the DMV of my driver's records from Nevada and the other state.
The judge meh, flips through the papers concludes I must still have an additional driver's license in the other state.
I said 'I brought you the printout of my driver's record from that state your honor.
I even have the post it note from the police chief that told the officer he made an error and to give me my license back.
And the actual ticket with the wrong number and my ID to show it's an error.'
He wouldnt listen or look again because he had made up his mind to side with the police and the error.
So I basically asked him to do his job and look at all of the official documentation I brought... and I was then immediately threatened with contempt if I said one more word and removed from the court room by the guard for disrespecting the judge.
Fiore, who just lost her bid to become Nevada’s treasurer, has never practiced law.
Indeed, it’s rare to serve as a judge when one has not even attended law school.
But more troubling is that Fiore has been the subject of at least one federal investigation and civil suit, has bragged about breaking the state law when she was a member of the state Assembly and previously suggested that law enforcement officers opt not to follow the law.
When we were moving home from NV we got pulled over by police near Chicago for a training scenario because we had luggage and boxes in the car.
That was the second time a cop threatened my dog for no reason.
I was nearly arrested at gun point for the theft of my own car by a Reno detective.
A police report from 3 days before is the only thing that stopped me being perp walked out my apt.
And he was immediately emasculated by my 16 lb dog who got threatened with a bullet when I came to the door.
My car was stolen out of the pepper mill valet and crashed into a parked car nearby for anyone curious.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
When my friend had a seizure at my house, that was a third time a cop threatened my dog.
Big, tough men lol.
So this woman comes to give my mom a class... and she shows up DRUNK.
My mom calls her out for showing up drunk they yell at each other and the woman runs away and drives off.
My mom was pissed and reports her to the authorities for driving drunk.
So the DUI class woman gets a DUI and loses the job she wasn't qualified to have had.. turns out she was an extremely close relative to the current seated Senator at the time.
So.... to keep it quiet they gave my mom her license back and she never had to do any classes.
Omg, I know someone in Nevada who's mom borrowed his car but he didnt see the note she left him so he reported it stolen.
Then walked a few blocks sees his mom there with the car, everything is fine so he gets in it to drive back home and call the police to tell them nevermind.. but along the way he gets pulled over and put in handcuffs and detained for far far longer than was reasonable, for stealing his own car.
According to the security guy who saw video, the valet started my car and turned or walked away and some random guy hopped in and took off.
It was utter negligence as I always put the keys in a valets hand.
I Never leave it running for them.