President Joe Biden promised Volodymyr Zelenskiy unwavering US support as Ukraine’s effort to beat back Russia’s invasion nears its 11th month even as support from Republicans poised to take control of the House wanes.
“The American people are with you every step of the way, and we will stay with you.
We will stay with you for as long as it takes,” Biden said at the White House on Wednesday during a joint press conference.
President Joe Biden welcomed Volodymyr Zelenskiy to the White House on Wednesday, as the Ukrainian president sought to firm up US support for Kyiv’s defense against Russia in his first trip outside his country since Moscow’s forces invaded.
Biden and first lady Jill Biden greeted Zelenskiy on the White House’s South Lawn shortly after 2 p.m. in Washinon, as the Ukrainian leader began a whirlwind trip that will conclude with an address to Congress in the evening.
“300 days, it’s hard to believe,” Biden told Zelenskiy in the Oval Office, remarking on the lenh of time that has elapsed since Russian President Vladimir Putin’s forces invaded.
“300 days of going through this as Putin has waged a brutal assault on Ukraine’s right to exist as a nation and the attack on innocent Ukrainian people.”.
Biden said Putin is “trying to use winter as a weapon” by bombarding civilian infrastructure in Ukraine with missiles and drones, including power, heat and water supplies.
Zelenskiy told Biden in English that Ukraine controls the situation in the war thanks to US support.
He thanked him “for your big support and leadership,” but cautioned that “the war is not over.”.
The US president wore a dark blue and yellow tie, similar to the colors of Ukraine’s flag, and Jill Biden wore a lighter blue dress.
Zelenskiy wore an army-green sweater and cargo pants, his customary attire in public since Russia’s invasion.
Biden placed a hand on Zelenskiy’s back as they turned to walk into the White House.
Biden’s administration on Wednesday announced $1.85 billion in additional military aid to Ukraine, including a Patriot missile battery to help the country bolster its defenses this winter.
“We’re going to strenhen Ukraine’s ability to defend itself, particularly air defense, and that’s why we’re going to be providing Ukraine with a Patriot missile battery and training your forces to accurately use them,” Biden told Zelenskiy, adding, “We stand with you.
You’ve been a great leader.”.
His visit comes at a critical stage in the war.
Ukraine has faced a barrage of Russian missile and drone attacks targeting its civilians and critical energy infrastructure in recent weeks, leading to power and water cuts.
Zelenskiy will address Congress Wednesday evening after a meeting and news conference with Biden.
Some Republicans have expressed skepticism or outright opposition to continued US support for the country.
He arrived at Blair House, where foreign leaders are accommodated across the street from the White House, just before 1 p.m. in Washinon.
Zelenskiy flew from Europe on a US government plane earlier Wednesday, landing at Joint Base Andrews outside Washinon.
He has pleaded for more advanced weapons systems to blunt Russian attacks and for additional energy and economic support as his country’s people brace for a brutal winter.
While the new US aid package includes a single Patriot battery, which can hit missiles and aircraft at higher altitudes than previous weaponry the Biden administration has provided, it does not include weapons such as tanks or fighter jets that Zelenskiy and other Ukrainians say they need to continue to push back Russian forces.
In their meeting, Biden and Zelenskiy will discuss strategy on the battlefield and sanctions and export controls placed on Russia, as well as economic, energy sector and humanitarian assistance, according to a senior administration official who briefed reporters ahead of the trip.
They're running out of viable tanks, their own infrastructure is going to degrade till it begins to fail and eventually they're going to run out of supplies to maintain an expansive war such as this.
It's not only Biden that might die, Putin doesn't look to be the healthiest of people either.
The guy is 70 and with a bit of luck not long for this world.
Nah they might hold stubborn for a few more months but they're facing equipment shortfalls as well as trade embargoes.
The latter they're using to get around with shell companies but the amount of stuff they can get this way is far more restricted and easier to disrupt.
Putin wont give up, it's the hard reality of his country coming apart at the seams that will force him out of the fight.
I think you underestimate Ruzzia's capabilities and ties.
Through rationing and good old fashion Russian meat shields, they can definitely sustain a 2 year conflict.
they likely wont make any ground, but as long as there's not a coup and they have able bodied men they can keep it up as long as they want.