In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Sawant is a Seattle City Council member in District 3, which encompasses Capitol Hill.
Lots of nightlife, big apartment buildings, and tends to be a younger crowd.
Single family homes here are old and some are in historical preservation areas.
It's as progressive as it gets for the city.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Conservatives don't like her for the obvious reasons, but even the most progressive Seattleites are done with the way she sabotages things for her own benefit.
Sawant wins here because she has historically attached herself to just about every liberal or progressive grassroots effort in the city.
Except, once she expresses support, she then railroads those movements into supporting her own agendas.
I was there at Cal Anderson park during the CHOP protests when she was essentially booed off the stage for taking the mic to talk about taxing Amazon, her pet project, without mentioning police reform or racial solidarity.
You know, the thing people were actually there to protest.
Nikita Oliver had to get on afterward and apologize to calm people down and stay on track.
And even then Sawant tried to co-opt the protests by marching people away from Capitol Hill towards an empty city hall because she wanted the photo op of her and her followers "storming the halls of power".
I think that's about the time most casual voters in the city saw that she's only out for herself.
I've lived in or around Capitol Hill for a while and did vote for her during her first run.
But people are tired of her inability to adapt or compromise even slightly.
She's extremely combative to anyone who isn't a diehard for her Socialist Alternative plan, and is constantly clashing with other, very liberal, Seattle city council members.
I remember her SA groupies getting into shouting matches during the protests when people would say that police reform is needed, but we can't just willy nilly disband the entire SPD overnight.