So the battalion of more modern Leopard 2 led by Germany is complete (18 German and 3 Portuguese Leopard 2A6 + 10 Swedish Leopard 2A5) having reached 31 tanks in total.
And the slightly older Leopard 2A4 battalion led by Poland will receive 4 more units from Canada and may get 4 more from Spain, Finland has pledged 3 at least - I think that puts them close to setting up 1 battalion and 1 additional company.
14 from Poland, 8 from Norway, 8 from Canada, 3 from Finland, (hopefully) 10 from Spain - that's one battalion of 31 tanks + 10 more to equip another company.
Unlike the Russians, Ukrainian troops in Germany are being trained not just in operating a Leopard 2, but in the tactics of combined arms warfare.
Training includes officer training up to the brigade level.
That means these Leopards never operated alone.
First of all MBTs and IFVs (40 Marder, 50 CV90, 60+ Bradleys initially) are basically joined at the hip - they only operate in tandem.
And they don't operate without artillery support to call in as needed.
M270/MARS II can take the place of CAS (close air support) and other elements like Pioneers trained in setting up ponton bridges, clearing paths through minefields and blowing up enemy strong points, along with reconaissance units equipped with drones and units like the French AMX-10, etc.
have been sent to Ukraine with trained crews over the last 6 months.
Not 31, at least 62 (2 battallions), probably more.
That sounds like not very much, but remember that we're talking modern MBTs here.
Those things, in good condition and operated properly, are themselves extremely effective, but even more importantly, serve as a gigantic force multiplier for allied infantry.
This is furthered by the fact that the tanks that Russia is using cannot be compared to modern MBTs like the ones being sent here.
So being able to wage combined arms warfare NATO style is a force multiplier, it's aimed at high-speed operations and much more likely to succeed in taking large areas from the enemy in a short period of time than sending a few isolated tanks and/or IFV at a time into enemy territory as we've seen Russia do.
They have the equipment for combined arms warfare ("Gefecht der verbundenen Waffen" in German) but it seems coordination (maybe with the exception of calling in artillery support) doesn't happen until way up in the hierarchy which takes too much time to work.
Having artillery, rocket artillery, air support, armoured mobile infantry, MBTs, pioneers and reconaissance all work together like a clockwork apparently can be, as mentioned, a massive force multiplier.
At least that's what I've read.
Also, remember that they're getting about 180 Leo 1s from Germany as well.
No match for the Leo 2s being sent (2A4s and up), but still more than good enough against Russia.
2 reconaissance battalions equipped with 30 Dingo, 30 Bushmaster, 10 AMX-10, surveillance drones and snipers.
Exactly, and from what I've read, the troops training in Germany (and I assume those in Poland as well) don't just learn how to operate the Leopard 2, they learn combined arms warfare, working together with artillery, reconaissance units (equipped with AMX-10, Dingo IMV and Bushmasters), pioneers equipped with vehicle launched bridges as well as medium mobile bridges systems that have been supplied with trained crews over the last few months by Germany and others, air support (where available) and rocket artillery (HIMARS, M270) which can to some extent fill in for any lack in close air support.
The training in Germany also includes training officers to conduct this kind of operations at the brigade level.
And the slightly older Leopard 2A4 contingent will likely be able to set up another company in addition to the battalion.
(Depending on those 6 Leopard 2A4 that Spain is trying to get battle ready).