After looking at the video, it looked like the AIM-9X hit just above the box truss that was supporting all the equipment.
It also seemed to hit perfectly in a way to sever all the suspension lines.
It did look like shit broke, but I imagine that a lot of the stuff on the periphery of the box truss will be salvageable.
The NTSB does pretty good work with airplanes that are completely destroyed.
I imagine something freefalling from that height into water will still be somewhat intact, although a lot of electronics will be trashed by saltwater.
The problem with the cannon is that you need to fly significantly closer to the balloon which can be risky.
You also need to engage it from above, which means flying significantly higher than the balloon, which is above the F-22's (unclassified) max altitude of 10 miles.
Shooting it from below sends the rounds on a ballistic trajectory for miles, which presents a hazard to vessels dozens of miles away.
I'm sure they wanted to test an infrared system on a low-temp target as well, but a missile allows for a good stand-off to mitigate risks to the pilot, puts the F-22 in it's operational altitude, and mitigates risks to other vessels in the vicinity.
It's possible the Navy used their LaWS infrared laser to target designate from a ship below the balloon, although that's pure speculation on my part.
It might be that the dark equipment surfaces or onboard electronics provided enough of a heat signature for infrared targeting.
I guess we'll just have to wait and see.
Yeap, good point.
Hitting an essentially stationary target would be extremely dangerous with the cannon at those closing speeds.
It's interesting to me how they managed to shoot it down with a heat-seeking AIM-9 when I doubt that balloon put out any thermal image for the missile to track on to.
How the pilot got lock on that balloon I don't know - maybe he had to make a few passes on it?
Did they believe the Facebook memes about Biden being an inept, Beijing-loving fool were all true and he was gonna just smirk and give it a thumbs up?
How the fuck would they expect any reaction besides shooting it down and being ask "what the hell"?
I guess it's cool they're apparently genuinely humiliated, but holy shit.
What other response could they have possibly expected?
I've read suggestions that perhaps the national leadership did not know about the balloon until the US press picked it up.
The Chinese military, who benefits from antagonism with the US, might have done it to deliberately heighten tension without approval from or knowledge of the civilian leadership.