I don’t think they are destabilizing it.
They are there to support the existing government.
Destabilizing is more like starting a coup to replace the existing government.
Which they are not doing.
Perfect r/badhistory,of course this is at the top.
Brazil was quite active in World War II, Cuba intervened in Angola, Venezuela has hosted Russian military, half a dozen Caribbean islands joined in during the invasion of Grenada, Colombia, participated in the Korean War, Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands, something like 90% of Paraguay’s male population died in the War of the Triple Alliance.
EL Salvador and Honduras went to war over a FIFA qualifier.
Jamaica is literally talking about intervening in Haiti right now.
Very few nations (Mexico being the most prominent example) have an express policy of neutrality.
The simple fact is that while lack of economic activity prevents many Latin American nations from intervening as much as they might like too they are perfectly willing and capable to launch interventions if it suits them.
Mind you the US had the Platt amendment, which proclaimed, they would invade if Cuba did anything, that would be detrimental to them, so they helped the dictator Fulgencio Batista, before the Cuban revolution.
LOL.
I would say yes, in the long run, If they could afford to.
They have a lot of pressing needs, not many resources and serious challenges from cartels and corruption.
After the US pointed nuclear weapons at the USSR, from inside Turkey.
The nuclear weapons on Cuba were taken back to USSR though.
China has more influence in Central America than Russia.
Both Russia and China have more influence in Central America than they would have had we not promoted banana republics, regime changes and other not so neighborly policies.
I don't think the relationship is as bad as it was during the heyday of the "Banana Republics" but the people there haven't forgotten that we promised freedom and all things American but supported the landed gentry, stood against land reform and gave them little choice but to look elsewhere for hope.
BS, they had zero interest in the Soviets until we relegated their citizens to serfdom and literally gave them no choice but to serve on plantations as economic slaves.
We squashed reform when we should have supported it based on who we're supposed to be as a nation.