i mean, corrupting your own country for decades and fucking the poor is kinda like salting the earth of constructive opportunities and building a stable, healthy society.
I don't expect reality to change his mind, he'll be too stubborn after years of being top dog in Russia to admit he was ever wrong on something.
Double down or nothing are the only two options for him, and since neither of those will work, he's fucked.
He always drank his own kool aid.
He literally thought we were just as bad as they are, democracy can't work, strong people running things is ideal, etc etc.
Putin and his types don't get that done company commander fills out req forms and receives money, pays himself and pays his friends.
They don't actually purchase anything.
They don't ever believe they need to.
They believe it means throwing your weight around, projecting "strenh", and just being a school yard bully.
That's Putin, and every other dictator.
(side note is this also describes Trump, perhaps that's why he looked up to Putin and other dictators).
By their understanding Zelenskyy, a tv comedian, was weak.
Putin was even quoted as saying that when he got elected.
Yet did he flee like other russian "strongmen" puppets?
Did he give up?
No - he stood and fought.
They are completely incapable of understanding it, and truely believe he will give up eventually - if only they can be a bit more "strong" and bully him a bit more.
By using the system itself, ideally, that'd do the least harm to average people.
Gonna be a long slog though, and no solution has any guarantee of success.
C'est la vie.
It was a cunning plan, you have to admit.
Otherwise we'd have untangled and fixed shit by now.
It's up to us to keep our systems constantly updated to address new threats to our democracies.
The vulnerability was revealed, now it needs to be patched.
Yeah, I've seen RealLifeLore too.
I think this fails to capture half the picture though, it doesn't take into account Russian nationalist sentiment.
Frankly, no man of Putin's stature is stupid enough to think their plans will always work perfectly.
The idea that plans go wrong and situations change is a pretty basic concept that everyone is familiar with.
That means, logically, he was aware there was some potential risk things would not go perfectly.
Since the cost of that is so extreme, it weighs heavier on that side of the cost/benefit analysis, even though the risk may be perceived as very low.
What's the point of being the richest (supposedly, when illegal money is counted too) man on Earth if you're never going to get to enjoy any of it, because this is what your legacy is turning into?
A slim chance of something absolutely horrible happening is something that should be paid attention to, basically, and it should've outweighed the gains if purely economic factors were in play.
Geopolitics is not fair, it's fundamentally hypocritical by its nature.
Unless you want some kind of global government or something.
Everyone is out for their own people's welfare though, this is just reality.
If a leader does anything except support their people's wellbeing, then they're not a very good leader.
Everyone has and sets agendas.
This is neither unusual nor inherently wrong, it's just having a goal and pursuing it.
Because you're not actually using them properly, you're just claiming what sounds like the closest one so you don't have to try to figure out how I'm actually incorrect.
It's a convenient excuse for children to hide beneath any time they run into an argument they can't actually beat, and frankly, it's not really worth the time of an adult to worry about it.