There are a couple of problems: no birth control method is 100% effective, and there's no way of knowing whether the man taking the pill has actually done so, unless the woman watches him do it, or whether the pill is the right one.
As long as it's the woman who gets pregnant, relying on someone else to make sure she doesn't is a gamble.
see, that's exactly the problem that this solves for guys.
There's no way for a guy to know a woman took hers either.
Now the guy gets his own control before the bedroom as well.
Most guys have had to deal with this exact problem for their entire lives - "What if the condom breaks?
I really hope she isn't lying about being on birth control", etc.
As you said, no method is 100% effective, so when you employ more than one method (safe sex/condoms in addition to birth control, which can now happen on both sides) then that is the best you can do all around.
Abortions are still perfectly legal in the US.
Just not in every state.
This is one of those times where we have to remember that our one country is divided more similarly to how the entire continent of Europe is.
Our states each have their own government and laws.
And if you don't like the laws of one, just drive a bit to another.
The problem is, at least going by news articles, is that the freedom to 'drive a bit to another' is being attacked by the Christian Taliban, and isn't always possible for people that hevn't got a lot of money.
Moreover, there seem to be some serious attempts to make abortion a Federal crime.
yeah, but the courts aren't cooperating.
As much as religious fanatics would like it to be otherwise, it's still perfectly legal.
The taliban comparison was a very accurate one.
The "Christian Taliban" as you've coined them are just about as successful at spreading their views to the whole of the USA as the Islamic Taliban are at spreading their views to the whole of Europe.
Yep, there's parts that they've successfully converted.
But it's a small minority of the whole.
True.
Although I'm 73M, I've never been in a relationship where birth control was not discussed before it was needed, all the way back to 1966.
It helps that I've only done 2 one-night stands in my life (back in the 60's), the rest were women with whom that I had developed an emotional relationship first, so this was not a (too) awkward conversation to have.
The EU is more akin to the US Federal Government, and each state is more akin to a European country in that they are somewhat similar in size and have their own government but still has to abide by the guidelines of the higher authority (US Federal govt for the states, EU for Europe).