C-C-P leadership purchased, imported and vaccinated themselves with 5000 Pfizer jabs as soon as they could back in 2021 and screwed the rest of the nation.
When the candidates at the local level are already filtered by the ruling party, that is not free.
When those candidates are in turn used to insulate all the higher ranking levels from accountability, that is not fair.
Xi's reelection was not "free" or "fair."
There are no national level elections in China.
It is a one-party political system with indirect elections for all higher level officials.
At least from the people I know, there are a lot that argue that because China does have local elections which filter upwards in their one-party system, there is an element of representative democracy that isn't that different from America.
In China, the candidates are heavily filtered and selected by the ruling party.
The same can be said for the Democrats or Republicans selecting their own candidates to put up in primaries, heavily biasing the vote through gerrymandering and voter suppression, or the election system itself selecting for certain types of people -- namely people with enough inherent wealth or influence to run.
Actually many Chinese experts will tell you why: when you spend two years painting the picture that the decadent west is still suffering the deaths of covid, that opening up is not the way to go, and that the Chinese way is the superior way, admitting that you can't yet produce mRNA vaccines (thus needing to import them) is a turnabout Xi can't afford.
Both on a personal level (loss of face is massively embarrassing in Chinese culture, and it'll taint him personally as the embodiment of the Party), and structural level (the deal is that the Chinese Communist Party will take care of you if you follow the rules), Xi is stuck between a rock and a hard place.
I think the approach they seem to have followed is to throw their population under the bus rather than admit their mistake: "oh you're protesting the lockdowns?
fine, we're opening up, just don't complain about the hundreds of thousands of deaths" and be done with it.
They haven't stocked up on medicines (except for this most recent one), spare hospital capacity, or anything to deal with the certain upcoming wave.
It's going to be a human tragedy in absolute numbers on the scale of the US or India.
Very sad.
They won't get off the Sinovac train.
Even though the West, which had effective vaccines (Sinovac was marginal, at best), they freely admit that with the new strains that have developed, the 1st gen don't cut it.
Xi won't admit this, god knows why.
So, they double down on Sinovac, lockdowns, etc.
So, is the sarcasm obvious?
Maybe if all you read is fairly unsophisticated and biased media.
But, when you look at the nuance, is it obviously sarcastic to say Xi was elected fairly and freely?
It's about as obviously sarcastic as saying Trump was elected fairly and freely.
I never said the US was better or different.
I was close to editing in that young people everywhere are getting fucked in the ass.
Yea, sure, they're not slaving away on a farm doing hard labor.
Instead, they're a recently graduated worker who can't find a job because of a shrinking white-collar job market that is due to government policies like driving away foreign employers, destroying the tutoring sector, crushing their own big-tech companies, etc.
They're a lonely and desperate young man who can't find a wife because of the imbalance between the male/female populations created by the one-child policy.
Alternatively, they might just not be able to get married because owning a house is often seen as a requirement for marriage and housing prices are out of reach.
Maybe they're a one-child policy single child saddled with the pressure of needing to take care of 2 aging parents.
Maybe they're a young couple who can't afford to have a kid because of the cost of doing so.
But, to humor your misplaced sarcasm, when you look at youth in America, they're much less blindly patriotic than older people.
You link Noam Chomsky saying that the US is the greatest threat to world peace to most young people and their response would be "yea, no shit.
".