So Japan, Australia and USA included India in Quad to oppose China.
India needed that badly, they needed some soft power, but now they're back tracking and siding with Russia and in turn China?
China will fuck India up, no matter how much they coddle to it.
With Russia's economy in dire straits, it's not a country to side with.
How incompetent your foreign policy can be?
And how exactly is India colluding with China?
Like, I must know how hoops your mind jumped through while reading that article, to come to such a conclusion.
Increasing trade with Russia is more to the Chinese detriment.
If China were to be the supermajority consumer of Russian resources, then there is no doubt that by that point, Russia would have forgone every bit of its economic autonomy.
Only Indian nationalistic dumbasses think Russia will any longer come to the aid of India in a Sino-Indian conflict.
And only western simpleminded blabbermouths would be sure that Russia would ever give up its strategic relations with both countries to try and intervene militarily.
Also, both India and China have made it clear that what happens between them, remains between them.
At best they'll try to slink in diplomatic support, but nothing more.
"How incompetent can your foreign policy be".
Mate, there are smarter and better-informed people than you who handle these tasks.
That's how they got their jobs for goodness sake.
I agree that the most prominent threats for India come from the Inside, but that goes for almost all countries in the world.
The cheap oil is good yes, the US also agrees given that it advised India to take advantage of the price caps set to dry out Russia.
Where did I mention India is colluding with China?
India coddling up to Russia is good news for China as Russian economy will be dependent on China more than ever.
India had a very good neutral policy when the Ukraine war started and it was brilliant as India needed both the West and Russia on their side, but the recent statements and moves have definitely made them seen leaning towards Russia.
The people working in Foreign ministry are way more qualified than I can ever be, but are the qualified people making the decisions?
India's trade deficit is already at a record high with China, that means their dependence on China is only increasing.
It's not hard to imagine that China will have a major say in Russian decisions in near future.
I may be cynical but the neutral strategy was much more in India's favor.