In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
For you yes, because you see those rights as a priority, but for other people it is not, but that doesn’t make them against it.
When you have only two party you got to chose the one that meet most of your priorities, and for some people LGBT rights are at the bottom but they are not against it, they just don’t really care but when they are specifically asked on the subject they vote in a « democrats way » because people think democrats good republicans bad (or the other way around) and can’t see that their is a big spectrum.
Most people are not okay with 100% of the party they vote for, and can be okay with a lot of what the other party is offering, but you got to make a choice and so you put your vote where your priorities are.
Probably because republican don’t just hate LGBT people, and it’s not a deal breaker for everybody.
You can vote for republican for a lot of other reason, and when you have to vote specifically for LGBT rights a lot of them would be for it.
It might be hard for some people but you can be for LGBT rights but still vote for republicans, for economics reason, for immigration reasons, for gun rights reason, ect… People just see blue and red, but their is a lot more than that.
You can also have people hating LGBT peoples still vote democrats.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I’m not saying they are right, I’m just saying everybody has their own point of view and priorities.
You have the rights to think they are immorals piece of shit to be okay with people having more rights but not making it a priority.
Someone asked a question and I answered it, i’m just the messenger.
What I personnally find sad is the fact there is only blue and red, politics touch everything, you can’t put economy and humans right together with a lot of other subject and then ask people to choose, America needs more than just 2 parties, there should be more diversity in the opinions.
But what always gets me is, this amendment is passing by a much wider margin than the Democrat for Senate is winning.
And I just can't understand or comprehend the sort of person that votes for this amendment, and then votes for the Republican.