The actual report just argues that each member should consider it and that the UN could help draw up frameworks that could inform and assist them in the process.
Isn't the first country you'd think of being strongly opposed to international justice systems the US?
While it is indeed absurd to expect a country lead by psychopaths put the thumb screwsbone saw to one of their most important revenue streams, a country whose corporations have funded coups and wars across several continents without facing any consequences is hardly worth not mentioning at all.
It sounds as though the above user was specifically highlighting the scenario in which fossil fuel extraction or use is largely done by the state, rendering laws regarding corporate responsibility moot.
The US doesn't really have state owned anything making it a pretty good example of where laws like this could work... if their legislature weren't so corrupt that they would never actually pass said laws.
But this is a recommendation for updates to domestic systems and not a proposal regarding international justice systems.
But that's how every international justice system/international law works - domestic adoption by every single signatory.
Even the ICC has no jurisdiction a) if a country has not ratified the Rome Statute, or b) if a country tries the case itself.
When the US didn't like the outcome of an ICJ case the US simply quit and nobody could do anything about it.
International law is just domestic law by international consensus (or pressure for smaller/weaker countries).
It sounds less like a signatory situation and more like 'you all should put a mechanism in place to solve this issue and we can help'.
Closer to lobbying governments to take action than an international judicial system.
Your last line is an oversimplification AND a clear distinction between international and domestic law.
One big difference would be that a domestic law would be harder for the US to ignore than an international one.
The US can just leave international organizations but needs to legislate itself out and/or avoid domestic accountability for domestic law.
Think about the US pushing its views on drugs to other countries and how sticky that has been versus the ICJ.
Edit: I don't think many countries are going to keen on this as of yet.
The US probably wouldn't be exceptional in that regard.
I get what you mean, though.
If, hypothetically, this somehow did get a bunch of countries to create laws that were mechanically similar, then it would spread and be enforced via pressure and trade in a similar fashion to international systems.
Stronger countries would largely be able to ignore that pressure.
And, of course, provided they went through whatever processes they have for repealing a law, the stronger countries could get out of it.
They are suggesting that each country individually should consider implementing laws that allow for criminal charges for actions that impact climate change.
Edit: international institutions wish they were effectively domestic laws with international consensus.
They'd have a lot more power if they were.
I think that WOULD require a new framework but I'm not sure how you'd pull it off without creating a pretty huge new risk to innovation.
I think it's unworkable but, charitably, the point would be to force companies to do their due diligence in investigating any potential climate impact while still allowing flexibility in how you address it, right?