TL.R for people who clearly didn't read the post: European countries are selling Russian oil to the UK under their own flag, bypassing the "no russia" policy through a loophole.
There you go no more circle jerk of 'UK bad'.
The has been copied to its discussion over in /r/europe, and makes it a bit clearer (and also goes into the ship-to-ship transfers):
However, maritime experts say the way the UK registers imports, as well as the increased use of ship-to-ship transfers, will make it difficult for the UK to sanction Russian oil.
When they pull into port, ships have to provide the country of origin of their cargo — in the case of oil, where it is refined.
Figures on oil imports are compiled by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and HM Revenue & Customs.
HMRC registers the value of a shipment, the country from which it was dispatched and its country of origin.
This information is collated by the ONS.
However, it is the country of dispatch that is used to measure the nationality of an import, not the country where it was produced.
This means a cargo of Chinese-made goods could be registered as being from Germany if it were imported to the UK by a German firm.
Eurostat, which produces trade statistics for EU countries, instead classifies imports according to country of origin.
Refineries may take crude oil from all over the world, by the time it reaches its final product; that gallon of E85 may have come from 80 different tankers all originating from various countries.
It is heated up and flows through miles of pipes, distillation columns and reactors.
These separate and change the crude oil into its refined constituents.
The easiest solution, would be for the UK and NATO to just say “we won’t buy from any refinery that buys Russian oil”, but I don’t think there’s the political will for that level of sanctions yet.
We are talking thousands of streams of chemicals that take anywhere from 30 minutes to weeks to reach their final product; continually flowing around a plant the size of a small town.
It’s not a conspiracy, it’s just the simplest solution and works perfectly fine under normal circumstances.
It would frankly be impossible to track.
So instead they just test the products and say they are produced in the refining country.
Aside from politics, it also comes with its own tangible headaches.
Refineries have a minimum crude flow rate that they can operate with…..if they can’t source enough oil from other locations to replace their Russian oil, they may have to shut down entirely.
This makes the fuel shortage worse, right before demand peaks in winter.
Not only that, the imports in question are almost a rounding error.
The UK imported $30+ billion in oil in 2021, this is pennies.
The UK has given multiple times the amount in question in aid to Ukraine, so it's clearly not some devious cost saving plan.
As for impact on history, many of those wars had quite a profound one, locally.
Just the maps that were drawn are a legacy that keeps on impact...ing.
Just the second one had than that.
You seem to have missed the civilian deaths, which btw., have to be taken in context of the size of opponents.
There were like the ones in India that you mentioned.
Americans might be able to think of one in particular that didn't have the UK on the "right side"; the Irish certainly can.
The UK isn't saintly, sure they could do their due diligence to track down where each commodity they buy is sourced from, but the blame isn't just their burden, and headlines like this act as if it is.
Essentially it's click bait made to make Anglophobes click.