As you said it is blessing in disguise because india has self imposed ban on some arms from everywhere and may remove or increase the ban depending on how much success india can become self reliant as Stated in the article otherwise about russian arms they aren't bad Russia strategy was.they went with war on ukraine with WW2 strategy while Ukraine were taught modern warfare strategy by us and europe.same is problem with India too though.and that should be India's biggest concern since china might also use same knowledge or may be not that different at best for india (nobody can tell how strong china is except probably india and Russia due to there joint military training) but even then china has advantage of technology not to mention they are merciless as proven in Galwan.
I think it goes beyond that, ruzzia hasnt moved on from a technology standpoint since the Soviet Union and it shows, I am certainly no expert but it looks like russian weapons are fine against low tier militaries, but they clearly stand no chance against their NATO counterparts.
If I was in charge of a country I would certainly not buy from russia after watching this shitshow.
Of course but this is why I said they are fine not the best.and why fine?
except eu and USA weapons pretty much anything in the market might not even be as fine as Russian of course there are osme exceptions that I am unsure of first is china nobody knows about hwo strong there weapons are, second will be both Korea's I haven't research much on South Korea and finally Japan and Australia and UK(which can be counted as former eu).
India won't be fighting USA india would be fighting china besides as I mentioned India already realised that relying on russia or anyone for that matter fro self defence is heading in wrong direction it's just making amendments will take time everything can't be discarded at once.
India doesn't need to fight the U.S. to not be using some of the worst platforms possible.
I don't see what your issue is with U.S. equipment, it consistently performs.