I was teaching English in Beijing in January of 2020 when this all got started and I sort of got stuck there.
I just left the country for the first time since 2020 last week due to a combination of a death in the family back home and my contract in China expiring this month giving me a convenient push to get out, back in the US for now.
The most amazing thing about China's reversals of their COVID restrictions is how sudden they were.
I remember staying up all night in early December because there were rumors going around on WeChat that a full nationwide lockdown with martial law was coming, then 6 hours later they announced that testing would no longer be mandatory, restaurants could re-open, and and we didn't need to show a health code to take public transportation.
Gradually things opened up more and more but the suddenness of the shift from some of the harshest lockdowns since early 2020 to just everything opening up normally was shocking and the explosion in cases that followed really goes to show that there simply was no plan for an orderly reversal of zero COVID restrictions.
I think at least one faction within the Party must have been really shaken up by the protests and put pressure on Xi to lift everything immediately just because there was no real option of taking the time to properly plan things out because the virus was already more or less out of control and the people, including the people in the big tier 1 cities like Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou, were just too fed up with it all.
At one point a couple months ago I asked several of my Chinese friends whether they were more afraid of catching COVID or being placed in a lockdown and every single one of them said lockdown.
That's when I knew that a change was inevitable, but I really never expected it to come so suddenly.
Bingo, we just witnessed mass protesting actually working, and in China out of all places.
Xi lost a ton of face when large groups started protesting in China's biggest tier-1 cities, and the risk of escalation definitely scared him.