It is important for NATO to have a strong partner in Germany.
Should the German army become stronger, regardless whether it becomes the strongest military in Europe or not, it is a positive for NATO, however, actions speak louder than words.
A few days after taking office, Boris Pistorius announced ambitious plans for the future of the Bundeswehr.
In order to achieve this, there are three central tasks.
In addition, the new Defense Minister wants to visit Ukraine in the next few weeks.
The new Federal Defense Minister, Boris Pistorius, has announced that he will visit Ukraine as soon as possible.
"What is certain is that I will travel to Ukraine quickly," said Pistorius of "Bild am Sonntag".
This will "probably even happen within the next four weeks," he added.
Under him as Minister, the Bundeswehr should take the top spot in Europe, Pistorius said.
"Germany is the largest economy in Europe, so it should also be our goal to have the strongest and best-equipped army in the EU."
However, this cannot be done in three years before the next federal election, it still takes a few years longer, emphasized Pistorius.
"My job is now to set the course for the turning point to succeed."
Chancellor Olaf Scholz had proclaimed this almost a year ago after the start of the Russian war of aggression in Ukraine.
According to Pistorius, there are three central tasks that must now be implemented quickly: the procurement of weapons and equipment, the modernization of the barracks and the recruitment of personnel.
In addition, the troops must "feel that they are trusted and grateful for what they are doing," said the former Interior Minister of Lower Saxony.
When asked when the decision about Leopard tanks for Ukraine would be made, Pistorius said: "We We are in very close dialogue on this issue with our international partners, above all with the USA."
In order to be well prepared for possible decisions, he instructed his company on Friday to "examine everything so that we don't lose time unnecessarily if the worst comes to the worst."
pressure from the allies has not yet decided to supply main battle tanks to the war zone.
The federal government has not yet issued any delivery permits to other countries for the tanks produced in Germany.