In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
So, this year, the Republicans ran this dipshit for secretary of state in California named Rachel Hamm.
I swear, they ran her as a test case to see how effective their propaganda was with a baseline of utter incompetence for the job at hand in a state they knew they wouldn't win.
I watched her quite a bit and she was in with the main crowd like Flynn and Bannon so there was a real effort to push her into the spotlight, but she is just absolutely clueless.
She wasn't even that proficient in rattling off the fox news lines like most of them can do in their sleep.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I don’t know if you know but vampires are some cool people are they not?
But let me tell you something that I found out: a werewolf can kill a vampire did you know that?
I never knew that.
So I don’t want to be a vampire anymore I wanna be a werewolf.
But then anyway as I’m watching this movie and then you tell how stupid it is cause it’s one in the morning.
So I’m watching my TV of these kids watching their TV of a vampire killed on their TV.
So you know it’s kinda stupid, but I’m still watching though.
As I’m watching this show what was funny was these kids had a vampire in their attic at their house.
So they were watching their TV, now I’m watching my TV, they’re watching their TV, they see the vampire killed on their TV.
So they win this contest to bring this actor — now y’all gotta stay with me — bring this actor who’s a vampire killer from that TV to get rid of this [unintelligible] vampire in their attic.
So this actor comes into their home, he got all the right stuff.
He got all the right stuff.
Because you know, gotta have a stake, gotta have a thing to kill him in the heart.
And he’s got a necklace of garlic, cause that work.
I don’t know what it does but it work.
Gotta have a cross, cause it burns, I know that works.