The US should suggest that Iran agree with the nuclear deal.
Sanctions would then end, and life would be better for Iranians.
This could quell the discontent among Iranians.
Iran should also say that any head covering for women including fashionable hats is acceptable.
But with this many protesters dead over a fucking head scarf....
I can only hope that I can have the same courage if something like this ever happens to my country.
Holy shit This regime is just .... horrible.
I was afraid to pass too much judgement on Iran as I know US and Iran have been at odds for quite some time and propaganda floats around.
Yes, these people are courageous when they know their own nation is unjust and put their own lives on the line for their freedom.
Fight for your country back Iran, you can do it!
My grandma worked with so many young Iranians when all this shit kicked off in the late 70s and remembers how distraught they were.
She’s so proud of you now.
I am trying to protect the protestors.
It would be great if the Iranian regime capitulates, but do you think that's going to happen?
My plan attempts to avoid bloodshed.
It would be great if the regime can be removed but is this possible?
There has been no regime change in North Korea, Russia, and China.
The purpose of the plan is to avoid bloodshed but at the same time making life a little better for Iranians.
You are living in a dream world in which the protestors can overthrow the regime.
Afghans weren't willing to fight the religious fanatical Taliban despite the support of NATO.
My plan is a compromise which both sides might accept.
Women might be willing to wear fashionable hats instead of the hijab.
No, the dream world is believing that the protestors can overthrow the Iranian regime.
It would be great if your dream world becomes reality but if the reality is that the regime cannot be removed then my proposal is better.
The Iranian regime is brutal, but can it be removed?
Putin and Kim Jong Un are still here.
Iran can possibly be persuaded to agree to a nuclear deal in the belief that a removal of sanctions would quell discontent.
The protest for women's rights could be part of this discontent.
Permitting women to wear fashionable hats would be a policy change that might make wearing head covering more acceptable.
To the contrary, you are naive in believing the protestors can overthrow the regime.
Putin and Kim Jung Un are still around.
I know the protestors want women's rights but that might be unachievable.
My proposal is something that both women and the regime might accept.
Yes, it does.
It might not be possible to remove the present regime no more than it's possible to remove Putin or Kim Jung Un.
My proposal would make life easier for the Iranian people.
It is not fine with women not having equal rights but if the regime cannot be overthrown, then it's better to try my proposal.
I'm sure women would prefer wearing fashionable hats to the hijab.
No, you are living in a dream world.
I realize that Iranian women want more rights, but can they change the regime?
I'm sure that Afghan women want more rights, but can they overthrow the Taliban?
If they can't, it would be better for both sides to accept my proposal.