In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Abbott pretends to have a solution to the problem that Republicans created in selling out foreign ownership of US assets.
These guys called it "foreign investment" then doubled down by giving the entity with foreign interests tax breaks in the 2017 TCJA.
Republicans encourage China, Russia, Iran and North Korea to buy land in blue states, get their kickbacks, then focus on "evil" Hunter Biden.
Abbott and Republicans have already cashed out on selling out, now they want to pretend like they have a solution.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
And LNG.
Hundreds of billions of dollars have flowed into LNG production operations and land acquisition in TX over the last decade, and tons of it is from China and Saudi Arabia.
Meanwhile, the local communities surrounding such operations get buried in pollution and cancer and see very little in the way of economic benefits.
And you are good with the bill mentioning no exception for green card holders/permanent residents who can lose their property?
If the courts don’t strike this down, it’ll basically become the Chinese exclusion act/Japanese internment 2.0.
You can have a permanent green card forever and renew it every 10 years, it’s not citizenship but they are still permanent residents and have no ties to their home country anymore.
This is different from conditional permanent residence.
Take my parents who have permanent green cards and are Chinese citizens.
They’ve owned a home they bought in 2001 while still paying off the mortage to this day.
I would be completely unconstitutional to just take that from and ruin them.
This new bill makes no exception to that.