In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
McConnell, Kevin McCarthy and DeSantis aren't "good people", and no one is implying that they are.
But if you can't see how they are currently saddled with an uncontrollable Trump / MAGA / QAnon nutbag fringe that they would much rather _not have there_, then I don't know what to tell you.
You're acting like the GOP is currently a united monolith, I'm saying they very clearly aren't.
Lmao, hardly.
It's a frankenparty now, and they're 100% still hostage to the corpse they stitched themselves to.
15 speaker votes before he got elected, it's a joke.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I don't think you have an accurate idea of what they currently are.
They are not hostage.
They did not attach themselves to Trump.
He attached himself to them, and spouted every last ideal they schemed and whispered.
He is their wet dream.
Every single GOP member has been pushing these lies and schemes and sick twisted attempts to overthrow the government for decades before Trump.
He just accelerated the timeline because he takes great pleasure in the crowds doing what he tells them to.
He's a primadona.
However, everything Trump is and has done?
The GOP has embraced that and so much more for a long time.
There is no redeeming qualities amongst any of them.
They are not trapped with him, he is trapped with them (because he's a bankrupt corrupt stooge trying to avoid a special tea drink from Putin if he screws up).
And again what I'm not saying, and never did say, is that they're somehow actually good/reasonable people because of that.
By a NY Times right wing opinionator who gets it wrong.
If anything it was the even lower than Trump, fist fights on the House floor that we haven't seen since the enraged slavers went after abolitionists, Post-Trump GOP but Trump is still leading candidate for GOP nomination to the point even ambitious MAGA GOPers like DeSantis are afraid to declare for presidential race, afraid of Trump.
The article is author Douhats fantasy that the GOP can be reformed, double fantasy really as he thinks the burn-down-the-house tactics that began with Reagan and Gingrich are any better than Trump and McCarthy.