In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If congress were proportional to the country's cross-section of religious beliefs (or lack thereof), there would be 42 members that self-identify as atheistic/agnostic and an additional 123 who call themselves religiously unaffiliated.
In the House, there would be 8 Jews, 4 Muslims (that's not far off), 4-ish Unitarians, 3 Buddhists, 3 Hindus, and a whopping 1 Wiccan/Pagan.
I long for the day we have a young, educated, ethnic, Pagan transwoman just to send the "Freedom" caucus into a permanent state of cataplectic rage.
Hmm... Kind of makes the whole right wing narrative that Christianity is under attack in this country look like a load of crap.
But I'm sure they'll be Fox News talking heads still blathering about how Christianity is under attack again soon.
What I said was I don't believe Christianity is under attack.
I don't believe that you can have the overwhelming vast majority of a government identifying as Christian and then claim that oppression of Christians is happening on a wide scale basis.
When you control the political power in this country you control the country.
It's ridiculous to imply that Christianity is somehow oppressed in America.
There are no laws that prevent Christians from worshiping, no one is telling you you can't be a Christian.
No one is telling you you can't teach your children Christianity.
It's simply not under attack.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I'm not sure what you're saying here.
Are you saying that simply because Christians hold the vast majority of political power in this country, far better represented in our political decision making process than they are as a percentage of the population, that means it is incorrect to think that they are not under attack?
I actually think it helps clarify the argument I'm making to quote people so they know specifically what I'm responding to.