In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If Thomas Massie is so concerned about the national debt,maybe he should wear another little button with how much Kentucky contributes in federal taxes and how much they take out.
not just unregulated PPP but firing the IG of the program just before it rolled out and now the house GQP has the fucking balls to start wringing their hands over the massive PPP fraud.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
“What share of the tax cuts went to the rich and the poor?
The richest 1 percent received 9.3 percent of the total tax cuts, the top 5 percent got 26.5 percent, the top quintile received 52.2 percent and the bottom quintile got 3.3 percent.”.
Next time Democrats have a majority rip that shit out by the roots.
Republicans can’t be trusted to behave responsibly or negotiate in good faith, take the weapon away from them.
There is absolutely no upside to allowing any party to play games with this.
a broken clock is right twice a day.
the fact that he never moved the needle a millimeter on any of those issues within his own party proves my point that he was all talk and no action.
his active opposition to things like civil rights and public health care way outweighs whatever ideological positions he pushed.
i have zero time for anyone pushing the libertarian line.
you mean the same Ron Paul that argued that the Civil Rights Bill was unconstitutional, wanted us the go back to the gold standard, published a racist newsletter and fought to end public education, medicare, medicaid and social security?
the same Ron Paul that failed to write a single bill that became law?
the same Ron Paul whose stance on health care as a presidential candidate was let the poors die?
the same Ron Paul that argued hospitals should be able to refuse anyone as a patient regardless of the emergency?
yeah, he was an amazing breathe of fresh air.
he had zero to do with changing right wing attitudes towards weed.
you might have noticed the House GQP still refuses to get behind cannabis reform and places like texas, paul's home state, are still locking people up for simple possession.
the thing that changed the minds of people like john boehner was the money the industry raked in.
paul had zero effect on changing attitudes about foreign policy, you might have noticed all the right wing saber rattling over the past 6 years regarding China and North Korea.
mike pompeo is as neocon as it gets and he was sec of state and head of cia under trump.
I think you're confusing causation with correlation.
while paul had positions that occasionally are similar to current right wing positions he did nothing to make that happen.
show me a single bill he wrote that affected any of these changes.
show me anyone currently holding national office that is crediting paul with any of this stuff.
i'm not trying to be argumentative, this guy was my rep for years, he was in my house a few times.
he's not the guy you seem to think he was.
i think we could def use diversity in congress, but more than that i'd like to see more serious people there.
try are get your head around a doctor that is arguing that hospitals should have a right to refuse to treat someone even if it results in their death.
this is a guy that puts his libertarian ideals above human life.
for all his anti-war talk, his anti-public heath care stance and his anti-safety net stance would kill way more people than the iraq war did.
and that's what he was pushing, a lot of people dying so he can have his ideological purity.
he wants to end public schools for fuck sake, the fire department and much of what we call infrastructure.
for 30 years guys like this have been promising that our economy is going to tank, that the hyper-inflation is just around the corner and the sky is just about to start falling because of the national debt.
they have been breathlessly imagining a future where the entire budget is given over to paying the debt and for decades that has failed to come to pass.
10 years ago we were 6 months away from turning into Greece.
the only time we get a break is when they have the presidency and then balloon the fucking debt.
when we will stop giving these guys headlines?
they know nothing.
they are wrong on literally everything related to economics.
his opposition to military interventions isn't because he thinks war is immoral and evil, it's becuase he doesn't like taxes and wants to eliminate the military so he'll have a little more money.
and that's what it comes down to with him, money.
he hated the war on drugs because he wants absolute privacy, not because it was racist and immoral.
you need to look into why he was pushing the policies he did, it's never for anything good or noble.
the right wing base is pretty excited about the idea of a war with china and they were very excited about the possibility of one with iran under trump.
just because they've finally realized iraq was a folly doesn't mean they are an anti-war party.