This was a very predictable outcome.
US boycotted Turkey's decision to buy S400s from Russia by kicking them out of the F35 program and banned the sale of F16s.
Ever since then, Turkey has been eager to get back to get these systems.
Sweden and Finland's desire to join NATO was seen as a perfect time to press for these demands.
I wouldn't be surprised if Erdogan tries to get Turkey back in the F35 program too.
As a Finn and Nato proponent for 20+ years I hate it that anyone is making any concessions to Erdogan.
Finland / Sweden can wait as long as it takes, appeasing dictator wannabes is not worth it we can find alternatives if needed.
How about you thank NATO for solving this issue and it costed you nothing.
We are best buddies now friend, no one will touch us!
I agree with you.
I really respect how Finland and Sweden have put a united front, and Finland made it clear that it's in no rush to join and neither party will join without the other.
I also respect the messaging from Sweden saying how they won't give some of the things Turkey is asking for because they're unconstitutional.
It really shows mollusks like Erdogan what a country with a backbone looks like.
Finland has been preparing for Russian invasion for 80+ years, even the infrastructure has been designed with that in mind and terrain is unforgiving.
So if Russia tried to invade they would have miserable time.
While I agree that joining Nato is very desirable and provides a lot of security, the extortion attempts by Erdogan are not OK. Human rights are not a thing to trade with and even these type of concessions on arms sales send a signal that the behaviour is OK. Russia is fully committed in Ukraine so they have no means whatsoever to attack elsewhere, so I would much rather wait as long as it takes than appease Erdogan.
Putin was appeased in 2014 by inaction and look where it led.
The optics is that Turkey can extort concessions.
Obviously its up to US to decide what they do, but personally I would rather wait as long as it takes than give anything to Erdogan.
He tried to trade with human rights FFS.
This is not just "daily politics" it's an attempt to extort with things that are not things to be traded with.
Seems that the opposition to Nato in Finland had merit to their concerns about allying with countries like Turkey.
Just sad to see that they are getting something out of it.
There's no chance of getting back into the F-35 program.
The reason they were removed was less about politics and more about the S400 being the anti-air system the F35 was designed to beat.
It really is not; Erdogan wanted a person who insulted him in Facebook extradited from Finland and a member of parliament from Sweden.
I guess if Russia suddenly develops a system that the F35 doesn't directly counter, then F35's could be back on the table, but until then almost certainly not.
Having the S400 and the F35 in the same training environment, drilling on how to effectively attack each other will allow them to refine the S400 systems to defeat the F35 by understanding in detail how it works to evade and overcome the s400.
Turkey was informed ahead of their S400 acquisition that this would be the result.
The US wants to keep the F35 relevant against Russian anti-air for as long as possible.
It's possible....but now that they've gone against our wishes and decided they would rather have S400 over F35, i doubt we'd go back and give it to them.
They could be like oops, thanks for the F-35s, we've decided to buy back our S400 systems.