That was quite a while ago.
They've now lost more soldiers than the US has in every conflict since 1953 combined.
They're very close (only a few thousand off) to pushing that date back to 1945.
There are so many videos of Ukraine picking off soldier 1-3 at a time with drone dropped grenades or mortars along with plenty of tank and bmp explosions I almost think that’s a low estimate.
Russia is even saying “Kherson is still ours even tho we’re evacuating” frigging clown show in the Russian government.
It just struck me because I was like… “yeah, I’d just defect.
Show up all white flag and hands up, be like I got fuckin sent here by that moron but he didn’t realize I’m just gonna use it as an escape, here’s some of our trash equipment”.
Ukraine understands their foes are all conscripts, if someone’s immediately just like “fuck Russia, I’m out” and hasn’t done anything to them, they’re not going to hate you because “Putin forced me” is a fairly relatable problem for them.
But better to make Putin think you’re dead for your family’s sake.
Something Ukraine would also know, so I’m sure falsely reporting defectors as casualties would be a plan.
training this only requires money, current tech is trivial enough to use that a highschooler is able to do it tbh.
Also, even if they field their worst garbage, that’s just gonna blow up faster because it’s so outdated vs what it’s fighting.
Plus is a PR nightmare because Ukrainian soldiers are recording the battle and posting it online all the time, so everyone’s going to be clowning on their stuff getting even more pathetic.
And they’ll probably have to strip like half to get the other half going.
Russia’s in the “using the backup items you’ve carried the entire game because there was always the possibility you’ll need them elsewhere” stage.
It’s sad.
They can’t reload a previous save, Putin’s too proud to flee, and they’re getting down to the nukes.
The wording of mobilization means Putin can conscript another 700k over the 300k that have already been conscripted.
In the lull that’s going on now if I were a Russian dude I’d be looking at anyway to leave the country or go hide somewhere internally.
Not so infinite, since the fall of the USSR Russia’s population has actually topped out lower in 2022 than it was in the early 90s by about 4 million.
The smartest Russians have fled, hundreds of thousands are in or shortly being sent to Ukraine to either die under equipped and with minimal training or take shrapnel in the ass or injuries that will fuck them up for life not to mention many will have ptsd and other mental difficulties from the war.
The estimate of 20% of the population being alcoholics is likely to increase over this plus all the sanctions mean they will be living in far less comfort than they’ve become accustomed to in the last 3 decades.
Their never ending manpower is taking a serious hit right now that will prob take at least a generation to reverse possibly more.