The Russian dead reached about 1000 per day recently.
That means 4000-5000 per day casualties (or maybe only 3000 if you trust Ukraine about how bad Russian medicine is).
This is before Russia begins any big attack which would open them to casualties much much bigger than the Ukrainian ones, so it means that we may reach 10k per day within weeks or months.
Even if Russia goes for a maximal 10million mobilization, that puts them at 30% total casualty rate of their young men within a year and within two would basically end the Russian nation.
There is a reason why Russia has resorted to desperate tactics - admitting openly that they interfered in the US Elections, war crimes of bombarding civilian infrastructure in Ukraine and a desperate push for all their "useful idiots" in the west to keep talking about negotiations.
If you wanna see the real numbers of casualties, you can check out Kyiv Independent on Twitter.
They post Russia's daily losses everyday.
Highest loss (dead or unable to fight) was at 950 () on October 30, 2022.
That bigger ratio of dead to wounded was reached about 6 months ago it's only gotten a lot worse since then, Videos have come out showing the horrifying state of RussianField hospitals, and some of the latest claims put about 80% of the wounded dying.
Truth is the first casualty in the warfare, never believe casualties numbers of a side that was claimed by the other.
This is not Call Of Duty or Battlefield.
Both sides are vastly exaggerating the casualties that they inflicted on the other side.
The Ukrainian calculations of Russian casualty numbers have been accurate and, in fact somewhat understated when compared to leaked Russian numbers.
There have been claims, before, that they were overstated, with people saying that you would have to notice such casualty numbers but recently and now we know there are at least as many as Ukraine claimed, but possibly many more.
The have lots more people, and they have quite a bit more artillery shells, however they are already getting to the stage where they have fewer armoured vehicles, even Tanks.
That's the reason for the massive ramp up of Russian casualties without any corresponding ramp on the Ukrainian side and that's the fact that Russia started sending conscripts without sufficient weapons to the front.