In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
And whilst on the subject let's all recall that he tried finding people, one after another, to help him rationalize doing the very thing that he is lauded for NOT doing.
I hope he knows that this not going to endear him to the people who wanted to hang him two years ago.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I read that as with the caveat of treason, felony and breach of peach.
Do those need to be proven, charged, or investigations?
The Clause has basically been held to only protect legislative functions.
I.e.
Anything they say and do that's a part of their function as a legislator is protected entirely.
The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States.
They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.”.
Realistically, it wouldn't surprise me if the courts decided the VP is covered by the Speech and Debate clause, but also that he can still be questioned about anything that falls outside of the VP's legislative duties.
This is exactly what happened to Graham (though there was no question there about the clause applying to him) being forced to testify regarding his phone calls with Georgia officials).
And the VP's legislative duties are extremely narrow.
They cast tie-breaking votes and preside over the joint session.
That's it.
Nothing Trump said to him should be covered, because the President has no role in Congress (though that would fall under his claim of executive privilege anyways).
So realistically, what actually would be covered by the S&D clause would be very little in terms of what the grand jury subpoena was looking for.