ITT: People across the world woefully unaware of the Dutch nitrogen crisis, it's relation to the Dutch housing crisis, the relative amount of nitrogen emitted by farms, and the percentage of food that we're not even producing for ourselves.
You're all kidding yourselves if you think the solution to the world's hunger crises will be found in one of Europe's smallest countries.
Dutch nitrogen production must be reduced with 40%.
80% of our nitrogen comes from farming, mainly livestock farming.
Reducing our livestock with 50% would instantly solve the nitrogen crisis.
Which could all be solved if those farmers getting sick and tired of restrictions on farming in one of the most densely industrialised countries in the world would just pack up and go farm where their products are actually sold.
“Uproot your entire livelihood, and likely the livelihood of dozens or maybe hundreds of people employed on your farm and move to whatever country your food is exported to.
Never mind the potentially unfriendly locals/government or the difficulty associated with settling in a new place where you may not speak the language.”.
The minister said they eventually will repurpose land if it comes down to it but that will be a long process and a massive shitshow (see farmers protests this last summer).
Okay so the Dutch peope can just keep their insanely massive housing deficit in order to keep food on the table of people living in other countries?
But we need the food, one might say.
Well, 60% of our livestock produce is exported, which brings in a mere 2% of our GDP.
The nitrogen crisis costs way more than that 2% GDP in blocking construction, transport, industrial growth and development, hell it's even slowing down our energy transition.
Spread food production around a bit for crying out loud, everyone asking for the Netherlands to carry this burden is insanely out of touch.
The actual question is 'what will replace exported meat', and that answer is very simple: vegetables.
Reducing meat production opens up livestock food farmland for human food farmland, actually increasing food production capacity.
That's right, you also need an environment that can sustain the nitrogen emissions that farms like that bring, without the nitrogen emissions being a danger to nature and jeopardizing housing developments (which also emit nitrogen).
Even more clear: if all non-farming-caused nitrogen production would be reduced to 0, we'd still be 50% short of the required reduction.
All tractors on highways should be confisquated and their drivers charged with attempt to manslaughter.
It's what would happen if I decided to drive a shovel on the A1...
Farmers are 80% of the problem.
Fuck them for fighting for their right to continue killing our ecosystem.
Screwing with our meat farmers, definately!
Major polution and highly inefficient use of water and farmland for the produced calories when compared to vegetables, all for a luxury item.
All going to meat once a week is completely healthy and would open up so much capacity to tackle some global environmental issues...