In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
"Joe Biden screwed up X" is a perennial headline, it'll always get clicks from conservatives, likewise "Joe Biden should/n't run in 2024!"
gets engagement from liberals, that's why we'll keep seeing headlines like those for as long as they're applicable.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Joe Biden has shown that experience matters as president.
What has been accomplished by him, Pelosi, and Schumer with the thinnest of margins is nothing short of impressive.
People can cry all they want about career politicians but these three know how to get things done.
Honestly, the guy is such a hardworking and humble public servant.
We probably won’t have anyone like him for years to come.
He’s works hard behind closed doors while fools like Trump and DeSantis do publicity stunts.
Lol this is literally what it looks like they did.
This headline makes zero sense.
Hey Biden, you had the most successful midterm of any Democratic president in years and years.
This means the voters want you out.
I knew CNN had sold out, I didn’t think it was becoming the Drudge Report.
I mean how old is Miller?
Bannon?
DeSantis?
Biden seems more fit than ever.
I’m voting for Joe.
He’s doing a great job.
The president doesn’t need to be ready to run a marathon.
The president needs to have a good character and exhibit qualities that we, the people, should aspire to be.
Joe’s humility, wisdom, resilience and ability to learn from past mistakes and be better and change his mind are the epitome of what makes America truly great.