In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I do not understand the distinction between police and sheriffs…except that sheriffs are elected?
Can someone explain this to me?
Want it to be even more scary?
Until the recent (last year?)
Supreme Court decision, many states had "mah issue" concealed carry rules.
What that means is that the Sherrif was allowed to deny or approve concealed carry licenses as they felt appropriate.
Sheriffs are usually elected and work for the County they are sheriffs of.
Deputy sheriffs work under the elected sheriff and the county and are unelected.
In practice, this meant some Sheriff always issued them, some never issued them, and some would only issue them to people in their good graces.
I'll give you one guess what skin color was required in most southern "may issue" counties.
“Should be” and “is” are different universes.
Other than elections, what are the constitutional checks and balances that keep that authority safe and non-corrupt during their term of service?
Swearing an oath to the constitution does not seem to have inhibited a lot of treacherous behavior in the last few years.
Local control doesn’t make it any more virtuous or less vulnerable to corruption.
Cleary, you and I are coming at this from opposite perspectives.
I’m okay with that.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Not really.
They're refusing to enforce laws.
The thing is that police aren't actually required to do anything, and in general are above the law.
Courts have explicitly ruled that police do not have a duty of care.
They are legally allowed to watch someone be stabbed to death and do nothing.
Even when the aggressor is stopped without their involvement, they have zero duty to prevent the victim from bleeding out.
For another example, there were zero legal consequences for the police which refused to allow anyone help during the Uvalde school shooting.
They explicitly allowed a shooter to execute people.
There are also many videos of police murdering innocents.
I believe a few were fired, and maybe one or two has faced jail-time.
It's actually worse than that.
Thanks to that ruling, the Uvalde police that actively prevented anyone from stopping a massacre are likely to face zero legal consequences.
Police face more consequences for having consensual sex with each other than they do for letting someone kill children and teachers.
See the story about the TN officer...
If you don't want to enforce the law, either quit or enforce it until it is actually adjudicated by the courts.