In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Some of you may remember some articles floating around about Hochul nominating a very strangely conservative judge to position of chief judge.
In new York and also California, the republican brand is incredibly unpopular.
But conservatives still want power, so what you end up with is a bunch of people who would be republican in any other state running as democrats, and basically lying about what they actually believe.
Donald Trump for example was a democrat who donated to the Clintons when he lived in New York.
Its not because he wanted people to have health care or anything like that, its because he wanted political power.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Frankly, Hochul has always been somewhat… suspicious.
She was endorsed by the NRA, for example - which is very strange for a democrat.
During covid, she made enemies in the state because she was trying to basicaly force everything back open ASAP and telling people it was time to stop working from home, because their commute fueled the economy.
She also was involved in a retaliatory firing where someone at an organization within the state tried to whistleblow a suspicious deal, so they were fired.
It’s also because these states have huge cities with huge economies and lots of executives and the like, who are all super buddy-buddy with the state to get as many kickbacks as they can, so we end up with a lot of corporatists.
Corporatists will embrace heavily right wing politics as long as they get tax cuts.
This is the same state Democratic Party that took away any chance the Dems had of holding the U.S. House by undermining their own progressive candidates as revenge for primarying centrist Dems.
These antics shouldn’t come as a surprise.