Actually, both Russia and China are courting South American.
There's a long history of the usa sticking its nose in there, supporting the wrong people, hence a dislike for the US.
It's not a small continent like people seem to think.
Brazil alone is 80 some percent the size of continental usa.
Hence, the largest beef supplier in the world any given year.
Brazil is hampered somewhat by the fact that such a large portion if it's land is Rainforest.
That is not to say that they should be getting rid of that rainforest, they absolutely shouldn't, but it does contribute to why Brazil isn't more powerful than its size would otherwise suggest.
Brasil ia 5th biggest country in size and in population, not that far from USA in 4th size and 3rd or 4th population.
The main reason that Brazil can't really get on the bad side of Russia is that they buy significant amounts of fertilizers from the country and if Russia stops selling it to Brazil we are major F fucked.
Nope, finally a war starting with nam I'm all in on, but I'm too old, even by Russian standards, and too disabled, but I've supplied money thru funds.
The first iraq war, too, probably, but I actually lack some knowledge since Kuwait was originally a province of iraq, but at the time, I was all in.
No, on iraq 2 and Afghanistan, I was vocal at that time, knowing our history there, and I'm beyond discusted by a group that the best way to help our vets is to cut funding for them!
We have a history since Vietnam of pissing on the people who went there willing or not to fight.
right or wrong, it's not their choice to fight or be exposed to hazardous chemicals, but I guess it fits with the disposable employee, unless you're wealthy or a ceo, samething.
Personally, I don't blame countries like Brazil for staying out of things.
You aren't the only lot who are not in a position to deal with the consequences of alienating Russia, and ultimately your government is responsible for the people of your nation before anything else.
That's how it should be in all governments really.
Actually, I looked and just forgot my numbers, but I was going off memory.
When was the last time I looked?
But then again, both are usa states, of which Brazil has none, but still beef and pork, continental usa items.
Still, I hope that Brazil is beginning efforts to diversify its sources of fertilizer.
Russia doesn't seem like they will be the most reliable partner moving forward.