In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yet somehow me, a trans person, is a danger to society for being on hormones and I shouldn’t have access to gender affirming care.
Guess I’ll buy a gun.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But, basically they see it as a sickness, and sickness at it's basic level is contagious.
Because there isn't a causative agent of these sicknesses, they think the causative agent is "wokeness", or, exposure to sexuality, because they are kinda too dumb to actually learn about it, but, it's not like there is clear biological processes that determine LGBT orientation, so they are going with the nurture argument for the gays.
Which, has evidence in some cases, but generally I feel like those anecdotal things I've heard have involved childhood sexual trauma, which everyone likes to jump on churches for, with evidence to launch that attack, but I generally think it's just pervasive through humanity to an extent, unfortunately.
I feel like anti-LGBT people (MAGA conservatives) have remaining gay disease AIDS mentality when it comes to this stuff.
Like, they think it's contagious, don't want their kids exposed to it because their basic understanding of it is as a pathology.
It's not linear to why they apply this to trans people, there are a lot of dots that can connect for these people, but the fact that a lot of trans issues are associated with body dysmorphia they see it as an illness, and illnesses are contagious.
Now, if they are so scared of diseases then why are they so weird about COVID?
Covid manifests pretty similarly to respiratory viruses that everyone has personal experience with, now, it can become much more severe, but most people who contract COVID are going to be alright.
It's not like COVID turns people trans.
If they thought COVID turned people trans then they would be wearing n-95s everytime they stepped outside.
I wouldn't be surprised to see Trump branded straight air supplies that these people would buy...