In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I’ll be honest if money is the only language they understand and if we’re playing into capitalism, then the solution has to be money oriented.
Require insurance for every gun license and every gun.
Just like cars.
Plenty money for insurance to make it profitable.
The more guns you own the more it costs to maintain.
Insurance companies can use publicly available social media posts to load insurance, hopefully silencing highly vocal 2A people.
Also If you’re negligent with your firearms and cause harm, then insurance is required to pay out, so victims get compensated, and gun owner’s insurance premiums go up.
Permit class action lawsuits for public threatening with a firearm and for mass shootings where even non-injured victims can claim for psychological trauma.
Make domestic terrorism the most expensive crime.
Notably he represents Uvalde.
His proposal would allow victims to sue state officials as well as police for their conduct.
Obviously doesn't stand much chance in Texas but thought it was an interesting proposal.
Those that are negligent will lose their license.
Those that are repeat offenders will be uninsurable.
Make possession of a firearm without a license or without insurance a criminal offence, making money for private prisons.
Just to clarify a few things, I don’t support gun rights and my preferred option is what goes on in every other country in the world.
Heavy regulation and a good reason required to own a gun with specific requirements to be met for every class of firearm.
Require licensing for every gun and make it a rigorous process that requires reapplication for certification on an annual basis, including medical reports, psychological assessment and mandatory safety training certification at regular intervals.
This generates revenue that way, and operates just like driving license.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I also don’t support private prisons, I only bring it up as an argument to sway the money talks type lawmakers.
Thirdly I know this is pie in the sky stuff, and pro-2A people don’t care about money.
They only care about either owning more guns or selling more guns.