Marketing.
People will flock anywhere if you tell them it's where people flock.
Dubai isn't the first desert tourist trap run by religious hypocrites to actively lean into the "sin.
".
You're forgetting people from Europe as well.
Dubai is a super safe city compared to Europe.
Also once you factor in taxes for some it's a no brainer.
The mormons who ran Vegas weren’t hypocrites.
They knew what they were doing and were very open about it.
It was set up to take money and profit from nonbelievers.
If the low quality influencers and trust fund babies prefer a city built out of air conditions and petro-dictatorship where they can't even hold hands then so be it.
A lot of culturally interested Europeans prefer domestic intra-European tourism.
The middle class European has had enough of overtourism to be honest.
I agree Dubai is safer than Paris let's say but European cities overall are very safe and it's pretty shortsighted to see Europe as just Paris, London or Amsterdam.
Should we post data on which countries have killed more people through genocide for religious reasons over the past century?
Guess which regions in the world come up on top.
Hint it's not the middle east.
And religious zealotry is non-existent in the rest of the world?
It exists here, but it's not Saudi Arabia or the mid-west.
Homosexually is illegal here and I don't condone that, however Dubai had a big gay scene and no one has been killed here for it.
The usual BS UK papers have a hard on for Dubai.
Burj Khalifa has a fully functional sewage system just like the rest of the country.
Excuse me for not writing a long drawn out list about which cities in Europe are better or worse and their advantages and disadvantages.
Would you like a list of petty crimes and violent crimes as well?
That being said Dubai has a big gay scene, no rainbow flags ever but lots of nightlife and parties and events.
As a straight non-white male, the only part to partially agree with is the gay part.
Everything else is not true.
Do we have crime?
For sure just like any other country but relatively you can live extremely safely.
You can literally leave your phone on a table walk away and not have anyone touch it for hours.
Violent crime is also very rare.
I was in Mykonos at one of the top places and people tried to swipe our booze right off the table, thinking we where not watching.
We managed to get them chucked in jail because they ended up going super aggressive on us.
Did I mention the whole west?
I just mentioned Dubai is relatively safer than Europe in general.
The key word here being relative.
What slaves are you talking about?
You mean the expat labor force who comes willingly?
Apparently the new Reddit definition for job holders is slavery.
Stay off anti work forum.
I lived in the States also and have the option to move back anytime I want to but guess what I live here!
Every crime stat and personal information I know about living and visiting both places confirms that.
How is that a double standard?
I have lots of European friends moving from Europe for different reasons but one common issue they all have is crime in Europe.
Sex trafficking is a problem globally and I have no doubt it exists over here as well just as it exists in Europe and the States as well.
It’s also warm in winter and close proximity to Europe.
Lots of europeans go to Dubai to escape European winters.
No one goes to Chicago to escape the winter.
Similarly in the US people go to Vegas or Miami to escape their winters.