My comment stands.
Charges for murdering and torturing people says nothing about whether or not authorities support the environment, so summarizing it as a win for the environment is both an unfounded claim, as well as an insensitive one to their families/supporters who almost assuredly see this first and foremost as a heinous crime against their loved ones rather than nature.
That people should be charged for murder by regardless of how one feels about the environment.
That justice should be unbiased.
That these charges are common sense and aren't any more of a "win" for the environment than giving a speeding ticket to an Exxon CEO.
I'd tie it to a corrupt justice system that has failed indigenous people.
I doubt the victims of such a system start/end with environmental activists.
In fact I'm sure many indigenous people don't give a flying fuck about "environmental justice" and see the more pressing issue as being one of basic human rights.
Some basic human rights transcend our more lofty aspirations like environmental justice.
If the tables were reversed, and activists were charged for torturing/murdering 4 loggers, would you summarize that as "a blow to environmental justice", or would it be easier for you to see why maybe that's not really the heart of the matter?
However, where I disagree is the transcendence of human rights.
Environmental justice does matter, and isn't really apt for comparison with basic human rights.
Poisoning the environment in the way we are doing is costing us many many lives in the short, medium, and long terms.
It's just much more difficult to quantity and assess than a straightforward thing like the cold-blooded murder of an indigenous person.
Either way, people who commit murder or willingly damage the environment we all share are doing a major disservice to society.
I think it just ends up being a rabbit hole when you try to explain why this is more fairly described as a case of criminal justice rather than environmental justice, since, as you said, there's no sensible way to compare the 2.
Diminishing the seriousness of environmental justice certainly wasn't my intent though.