In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That's what the cops say but body cam footage is conveniently missing and the gun the protestor "used" is a typical cop gun and protesters have said it was friendly fire the cops pinned on the protestor.
85 acres of forest demolished so cops can cosplay action hero in a fake city that local citizens don't want in their community.
I have zero sympathy for law enforcement here.
Following orders isn't a good enough excuse.
The defense of this abomination makes them the enemy.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Charging them with terrorism seems a bit much.
But it does sound like the protesters were unlawfully protesting.
Absolutely doesn't justify their deaths, but they shouldn't have been doing that.
Protests should be done lawfully if they are going to be done at all.
Sounds like the point here is that the location that they were protesting at wasn't public property where protest can be done, or something like that.
The fact that someone got away with protesting on private property before doesn't mean it is some unreasonable thing for them to eventually face consequences for doing it.
I get that the environmental movement has been shifting more and more into support for, like, even outright sabotage and more illegal actions, but none of that is actually going to help it.
If lawful protest won't solve something, I don't see how unlawful protest will be more likely to work.
I'm not saying the consequence should be death.
But nobody should unlawfully protest, not in a country where lawful protest is allowed.
Just because someone feels like unlawful protest would be more effective doesn't mean they are entitled to be able to trespass or otherwise break the law.
And breaking the law increases the chances that someone will be in danger.
Especially when they are breaking the law with a group of other people on private property acting for political goals and possibly also while armed.
And it's ultimately up to the courts to deal with sentencing and charging and such.
But do you not think the police should be able to detain and remove trespassers from the place they are trespassing at?
It's not "oppression" to cut down a forest for a police training facility.
And you just aren't likely to get regular folks to sympathize with your goals if you protest unlawfully.
Especially in a country like the US where lawful protest is clearly legal.
It would be one thing if the state did not allow protest.
But clearly that's not the case.