It's a small price to save Ukraine.
Just remember this is temporary.
Youre just paying a bit more for groceries but people in Ukraine are losing their entire life.
It can't even be attributed (solely) to Ukraine.
Inflation was already seen as rising a lot in multiple countries in 2020 and 2021 and multiple economists were seeing signs of upcoming economic crisis.
It's a combination of multiple factors:
second are climate changes that are slowly but steadily showing up on our metrics.
2022 heat waves killed over 30000 people across France, Germany and UK.
These affect our yields (some wineries are actually slowly moving from France to UK), disrupt natural rain/humidity cycles and so on.
Food won't get cheaper if it's production is disrupted.
third is an elephant in the room called Brexit.
What fresh foods do you want and you don't have usual seasonal workers because you "wanted to take back control"?
Even truckers .
UK literally wanted and voted to have higher costs of logistics so they got it.
It just so happens that it affects everything else.
first was Covid.
Governments across the globe generally implemented a combination of lockdowns (closing the factories) and money printing (giving out money to said factories so they won't fire employees).
So you had a case of magical helicopter money which was pretty much guaranteed to raise inflation after some time.
There are also some other quality factors like crazy Lettuces leading the country and managing to almost drown pension funds forcing currency intervention.
It doesn't inspire much confidence when your country imports a lot of stuff and changes leaders every few weeks with some of them literally shorting the pound.
I follow macro economics pretty well but have no idea what almost imploded the British bond/forex market earlier this year.
One day I saw the exchange rate fall off a cliff almost to 1to1 usd/pound.
This was not really talked about in the American news cycle but I was just looking at the chart with a dropped jaw, because I know that symbolized trillions in lost money.
Then something else happened and the markets recovered but I suspect that was a band aid.
And so on.
Russia-Ukraine war is a factor but it's by no means the only one and I am not even sure if it's a leading one.
Even if UK stayed neutral on this one it still would get hit by increased gas prices too.