> According to the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, there were 226 soldiers in this regiment.
At the moment, at least 70 invaders have been eliminated from this unit.
It's what they deserve though, for thinking they could just take over other people's land and homes and they would be happy with it.
Today it was mostly quiet, but we had a couple of air raid alerts which were uneventful for Kharkiv, but other towns/cities were hit.
Kupiansk was hit a couple of times today, most likely with S-300 missiles both times.
Then Dnipro was also hit with missiles in the evening, apparently they hit some company’s manufacturing facilities and there were no reported casualties.
The Russians are so compromised in Zaporizhzhia (actually pretty much in every occupied territory) that the Ukrainians know everything they do right down to where a specific regiment is at a specific location/time and how many.
The civilians and partisans just run a 24/7 info hotline to the Ukrainian army it seems.
Blackouts in Kharkiv still continue, but not everywhere.
Some parts of the city literally never have blackouts, while others are without electricity almost the entire day.
My apartment building had blackouts lasting 5-8 hours every day during the last 4 days.
But then we look outside of our window and all the buildings on the other side of the street never have any blackouts, they are always lit up, which just sucks.
Blackouts should be evenly divided between everyone, and not like it is now with some people never having electricity, while others never have any blackouts.
Pretty much everyone right now is predicting a new massive missile strike on our infrastructure tomorrow.
Apparently there are 20 Tu-95s on standby right now, while during the previous missile strikes it was more like 10-11, so it is expected that this one might be much bigger than the previous ones.
If it does happen then I’m not sure when I’ll be able to write next, we probably won’t have electricity for days or maybe even weeks, because the damage to our energy infrastructure worsens with each new missile strike.
The biggest problem with having no electricity will be not being able to make food or boil water as we only have an electric stove, and the last gas tank we had for our portable gas stove has run out, so this will be horrible if we do indeed lose electricity for a long period of time.