In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I live in Europe and all police encounters where pleasant exept one where I had a car crash and the police didn't even leave their cars to properly asses the situation.
They are all quitting because the public expects them to be held accountable for there actions.
You go on police forums and Facebook groups they openly discuss how they are sabotaging the citys they work for because they do not like the city councils or how they did not get Support them during the BLM protest.
police are openly telling possible recruits to not take jobs in Seattle and Portland to punish them for the protest.
Anyone know of any statistics as a result of them them doing it?
Part of me thinks the only fallout was lower tax revenue, those fat white guys don’t seem to do much crime solving.
The best interaction I had is when I had a car crash where I crashed against the railing on the autobahn and I lost controll totaling my car the police was realy nice even letting me wait in their car while I waited for pick up.
When I honestly toled them how fast I was (I was to fast for the turn) they toled me you probably where driving with less speed would be kinda bad on the inshurence report if you where driving that fast.
I find it Stange that this is not something tought here since to become a police officer you have to complete your 1 year of mandetory service in the millitary normaly you can also compleat it as a civil servant doing stuff like being a paramedic or caring for the elderly but to specificly become police you need to have served.
Keeping that in mind you would think this makes police even more agresive but aparently it doesn't.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
One thing I do find wird about American police is the road side sobriaty test why does police still use it at all we do have breathalyzer.
In Austria if you get pulled over and the police whants to check your alcohol lvl they do a breathalyzer but you can also instead demand a blood draw wich will make the police less friendly because this annoys them to no end but why are American cops still sticking to sobriaty tests instead of using a breathalyzer instead those things are not even expensive.
Also BTW I am Austrian we have some of the most lax gun and self defense laws in the EU.
You can buy non auto weapons without a license you just need to register it.
You can easily get a pistols with up to 20 shot and semi auto weapons with up to 10 shots.
The only weapons banned are full auto and obvious weapons of war like war ships or fighter jets.
Yes I can list them all to you in Austria we have 3 types of weapon catagorise.
Catagory A, B and C.
Catagory A are all prohibited weapons and materials of war the list includes stuff like war ships morters explosives stuff that is only used for war.
It also includes several types of ammo like incindiary full metal jacket and tracer to name a few.
It further includes all fully automatic weapons and weapons wich purpos it is to be concealed (this means weapons that look like objects and stuff like brass knuckles) for attachments the only thing prohibited is the silencer for some odd reason pump action weapons all fall in this list while lever action is fine.
Catagory B are all weapons wich you require a license to own this includes all pistols no matter make model or what they are made for unless they are catagory A they also need to have a Magazin capacity of 20 shots or less.
It also includes semi auto weapons again same thing as above but a magazine capacity of 10 shots.
Catagory C are weapons you do not need a license to own but you have to register your purchase with the goverment up to 6 months after purches.
Catagory C weapons are all guns that are not already catagory A or B so stuff like a hunting rifle or a break action shotgun or even the lever action shotgun mention above still no idea why pump guns are A but lever action is C.
Now their are two types of gun license a license to own and a license to Cary.
Everybody can basicly get a license to own if they whant but carry licenses are only given to people who need one like all police officers have so do private security and so on.
Even tho we have such a lax law oh BTW this is all contained inside one single law.
We only have as many guns per capita as Germany a country where it is nearly impossible to get any guns a country where you have to actively participate in a gun related sport to keep the gun if you stop participating or take a break for too long you have to give up your gun.
Why we have so few guns is because Austrians feel relatively safe.
Most violence is non Austrian on non Austrian like Serbs stabbing other eastern Europeans or Eastern Europeans stabbing asylum seekers.
Crime directed towards Austrians is relatively rare.
I have no problem with police officers in making a good wage as long as they are educated and properly trained.
While at the same time they need to be held to higher standard cops are caught all the time turning off cameras and lying on police reports.
More often than not they get a slap on the wrist for stuff like that.