(Reuters) - Russia's defence minister said on Tuesday that Western arms supplies to Ukraine were effectively dragging NATO into the conflict, warning this could lead to an "unpredictable" escalation.
"The U.S. and its allies are trying to prolong the conflict as much as possible," Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said in a conference call with military officials.
"To do this, they have started supplying heavy offensive weapons, openly urging Ukraine to seize our territories.
In fact, such steps are dragging NATO countries into the conflict and could lead to an unpredictable level of escalation.
".
Here's the thing.
Russia has escalated every chance they've gotten.
They didn't start out by bombing civs.
But they are now cause they've an easier target.
They've escalated the rhetoric.
They tried to escalate the pressure on ukraine.
So, at this point.
We dont care.
Whatever russia has, NATO has way way way more of.
And russia knows it.
The only reason they they openly use threats like this is because thats all they have, and they know NATO isn't going to attack russia.
His allusion to "our territories" appeared to be a reference to four regions in eastern and southern Ukraine - Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson - that Russia claims to have annexed following referendums last September condemned by Kyiv and its Western allies as illegitimate.
No one cared last time Russia said ‘but this time we’re serious’ because Ukraine stopped their Blyatskrig that was supposed to be over in 3 days by blowing up their supply trucks and then taking all the tanks that were out of gas.
The more russia whines about escalation and nothing happens the more likely NATO is to help Ukraine because russia never acts on their hollow threats anyway.
It started with nobody even daring to say they sent anti air missiles, and now they are openly talking about sending fighter jets after tanks area already on the way.
If this upwards trend keeps going for years i wouldn't be surprised if we eventually saw a country sending in their army to defend Ukraine directly.
The truth is that the combined military power of NATO is so far ahead of russia that its not even close.
10% of NATO would be able to steamroll russia out of Ukraine.
NATO has more soldiers, more tanks, more aircraft, more ships, more nukes, more funding, more training, more intelligence, more everything.
They are scared to death that NATO will directly intervene in Ukraine and threats is all they have and the only "diplomacy" they are capable of, because historically it has worked in their favor (like when the world just let russia have Crimea in 2014 because "you dont want WW3 do you!?
").
If they thought they could use nukes on Ukraine they would have just come up with an excuse and done it by now.
They said nukes will be used if russia is attacked, but obviously that hasn't happened.
The only thing russia (luckily) understands is how mutually assured destruction works.
And its why they wont use nuclear weapons on Ukraine.
Ukraine has already launched strikes inside russia.
Not to mention that russia considers parts of Ukraine to be russia (parts where there is heavy fighting).