In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That's why the Qanon crowd has group prayer sessions to beam up their thoughts - if you get enough people wearing the right crystals it overpowers the space lasers with Jesus's love and the power of pussy grabbing freeze peaches.
1 year ago: "Trump is the best leader the free world has ever seen Only he can deliver us into the future".
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I do expect domestic terrorism to increase should Trump be indicted by the DOJ.
I've never understood these people's loyalty to him, other than he allows them (in their minds) to be the actual assholes they are.
Today: "Eh, Trump's a has-been.
A one hit wonder.
I was never really into him anyway.
I like less crazy conservatives like DeSantis.
I just voted for Trump because he supports the same rational policies the GOP does like destroying the globalist antifa elite child predator moon invaders from Mexico.
".
It seems obvious that the Special Counsel has plenty to indict on in the docs and Jan 6th cases.
And they brought on a trial lawyer as Special Counsel, so clearly they believe that is likely.
No need for the committee to apply any political pressure at this point.
My guess is they recommend charges for a handful of underlings, but stop short of making a criminal referral for Trump specifically.
I think they will make it clear that they believe Trump is the central player in the crime, but also say that since a Special Master has now been put in place specifically charged with this specific case, that they do not want to put undue pressure on him that could be perceived as political.
Since their referral isn't binding anyway, the committee doesn't accomplish anything with an official referral that isn't outweighed by the reality that it could be fairly interpreted as political pressure.