In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
What do you mean, they're one of those socialized European countries that don't work and have no money and nobody works because they all get paid to stay at home and collect welfare and their hospitals and doctors can never see you.
The government getting involved in private sector standard setting such as mandatory vacation allotments is communism and will doom America.
but "because they don't have any" isn't a great clickbait article, bezos needs the ad revenue to subsidize his platform to justify & minimize all the horrible shit billionaires do.
Saying they’re mad that the government didn’t step in and tell private companies what to do is.. concerning.
Especially for republicans who srill push the big lie about their party being pro private business and small government.
So, I respect their rights, but their rights don’t supersede all.
I agree that this was a bold move of protectionism.
However both sides would have done it.
To say we should blame Biden is pretty obtuse.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The issue is quite challenging at its core.
The entire country can not be taken hostage by one group.
I wouldn’t say that’s bargaining power at that point.
It’s terroristic to think you can damage the livelihood of all your neighbors and potentially kill people for your rights.
It feels very emotional and reactionary to an issue I believe was pretty established.
This isn’t the first time it’s happened and won’t be the last.
The rail believes their issues should hold this country hostage.
I understand what you mean.
I don’t believe the demands are unreasonable, but not how capitalism works.
Forcing the companies to the table is effectively ordering them by the government.
They’re effectively forcing an existing agreement.
Not adding new protections.
Therefore, no one lost and no one gained.
Though workers gained in some sense, not to the extent they wanted.
I think that’s the difference.
We are stuck with capitalism until we find a better solution to these issues.
Regardless of how I feel or what protections I hope for.
To be more worker-focused, we would need to move towards a model that prioritizes it.
We don’t and neither side is focused on those rights as their main selling point despite what they say.
They’re both pro greed.
We are stuck with capitalism until we find a better solution to these issues.
Regardless of how I feel or what protections I hope for.
To be more worker-focused, we would need to move towards a model that prioritizes it.
We don’t and neither side is focused on those rights as their main selling point despite what they say.
They’re both pro greed.