In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Here is the beginning of our exclusive deeper look at Jack Smith, the special prosecutor in charge of deciding whether to prosecute Donald Trump:
In my mind, he pictures a "Jack Smith" as a hardened stoic man in a suit and dark glasses like a super secret FBI agent.
No one that cool could oppose Trump the God-King.
At this time, I don't think it matters what Trump thinks (if he thinks at all).
Smith didn't seem to care what the president of Kosovo thought of him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Witnesses had lost hope and disappeared.
Criminal suspect No.
1 had become president.
And the long-awaited indictment now seemed unreachable.
The story may sound familiar, if not a bit like resistance fan-fiction.
But this story is actually about Smith’s efforts in Kosovo, a small country in southeastern Europe that was historically an Albanian enclave in Serbia.
It was difficult every step of the way.
Smith had to defend his work from widespread accusations that he was conducting an unfair political prosecution to remove the nation’s favorite leader.
And the narrative was that cooperators are traitors—and that these lawyers like Smith were trying to destroy the country.
Then, American prosecutor Jack Smith came along and took charge, sending his investigators on an aggressive mission to win back reluctant witnesses—by targeting the tight-lipped politicians and militant nationalists who had kept them silent.
Since the U.S. Department of Justice appointed Smith as the trusted special counsel investigating former President Donald Trump last month, there have been dozens of news profiles focusing on his time as a domestic prosecutor investigating public corruption.
Several have even incorrectly identified the international court he served on.
But this is the first sweeping look at what exactly he accomplished while on a special assignment abroad in Europe, where he took down Kosovo’s sitting president—and gained the credentials to target an American one.
Smith is not some law-school graduate prosecutor who is going to court to be surprised by intimidated witnesses and blackmailed officials.
He's seen that act before and knows how to deal with it.
He's not some little-boy-in-a-man's-poker-game like most of the Democrats who have gone up against Trump's people.
They are now the little boys and any of the good ones left are going to bail, leaving Trump with the same residue of clowns who went to court claiming voter fraud.
Trump will be tried in a court, not in a wrestling ring wearing a cape and holding a microphone.