In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Ultimately they view anyone who is not Jewish as potentially antisemitic for any number of reasons.
For him it's about nurturing alliances against common enemies so everyone doesn't turn on Israel at once.
Bibi and the Israeli right are much more concerned with Iran and local military threats, and they perceive the American Republican party as hawkish along the same lines, so he will tolerate any antisemitism from the GOP as long as Christian conservatives continue to believe Israel must be protected from Muslims and want to continue pouring in military and economic support.
There is so much overt antisemitism all around the world that Trump and whatever is going on with American right wing conspiracists is nothing new or shocking to him.
The American evangelicals still want to protect Israel and they view the Jewish government as an ally in the modern Crusades, even though they are fundamentally antisemitic, so Bibi will nurture that relationship as long as he can.
The only reason fundamentalist evangelical Christian’s say they care about Israel is because they believe that Israel has to exist for Jesus to return.
Fundamentalists do, yes.
But the more general American right has slightly vague beliefs about the importance of Israel and simply see the Jewish population as a closer ally and less of a cultural threat than Muslims.
A more simple way of looking at it would be that American conservatives view Israelis as different, but sharing Western values, whereas they view Muslims as both different and rejecting Western values.
Israel is sort of like a psychological/spiritual buffer between the West and the Middle East for a lot of the American right.
The US gives the same amount of aid to Egypt and Jordan as to Israel.
So these are majority Muslim countries, so it doesn't really line up with the Israel gets support because they hate Muslims angle.
The aid going to Israel, Egypt, and Jordan mostly winds up back in the hands of the US defense Industrial Complex.
Which yeah, that's probably not good, but we're getting further away from the US supports Israel because evangelicals hate Muslims.
Israel is a democracy surrounded by authoritarian regimes many of which are bent on destroying them.
They're in a not too dissimilar situation from Ukraine or Taiwan really.
So while there may be an argument against sending military aid to Egypt and Jordan, and definitely an argument against sending military aid to Saudi Arabia, Israel is the one country in the Middle East where there is a very good justification for sending that aid, because it's a democracy that various authoritarian regimes are working towards destroying.