I was at the Manhattan DA’s Office from 2012 to 2017, working for a special narcotics unit doing trials and wiretap investigations.
Then I put on my journalist cap and went to Washinon to cover the Supreme Court and other legal issues for Bloomberg Law.
I recently joined MSNBC, where I author the new , a digital extension of Nicolle Wallace’s “,” which airs weekdays from 4-6 p.m.
ET.
I’m excited to bring my legal knowledge and experience to the blog — and this year promises to be a wild ride in the legal world.
(I also have a book coming out in April, called “,” a true crime War on Drugs saga .
.
.
.)
On the blog, I’ve been covering everything from the  to  to .
.
.
?
Yes, really.
But today, let’s talk about  – where prosecutors in the Department of Justice, , and  are eyeing the former president and current 2024 candidate.
Trump committed many crimes, LIVE ON TELEVISION, confessed to others, LIVE ON TELEVISION, and when questioned in interviews, doubled down on his confessions, justifications for his actions.
If this man is not tried for his crimes it sets a precedent: This will no longer be a country of laws, but a country of men.
Weak, stupid men, who can't even drink a glass of water, or use a ramp properly.
I understand where you’re coming from.
And if by “held to account” you mean charged with crimes, there’s no guarantee that that will happen.
And I certainly wouldn’t take anything on faith.
However, I do believe that Trump will be charged this year in at least one of the jurisdictions investigating him – that is, Georgia, New York, and the two DOJ probes into Jan. 6 and Mar-a-Lago.
As far why we haven’t seen charges out of Georgia yet, that’s because there’s been a special grand jury sitting there that couldn’t bring charges; and now that that special grand jury is over, Fulton County DA Fani Willis has said recently that decisions are “imminent,” meaning she could be bringing charges through a regular grand jury that can do so.
Again, that’s not a guarantee that Trump will be charged there (saying nothing of what the result would be if he is), but it helps a bit to explain the timeline of why hasn’t been charged there yet if he will be.
In New York, we also have recent reporting that the Manhattan DA’s office has a grand jury looking into Trump now.
So, again, like Georgia, that doesn’t guarantee that Trump will be charged there, either, but it helps to explain why he hasn’t been charged there yet if he will be.
DOJ is a bit of a different story, because the investigations there haven’t been playing out in public like some of the state action.
Yet I don’t think that that’s an indication that charges won’t come via special counsel Jack Smith’s probe, but rather that the department prefers to operate quietly and then only announce a decision when it’s ready.
It wouldn’t surprise me if charges come from the DOJ this year in addition to both Georgia and New York.
None of that really answers the question of why anyone should have faith regarding what will happen to Trump, but hopefully it provides a bit of perspective as to what might happen.
I guess the more apt question would be, why is this taking so long for what are what appear to be very cut and dry cases.
The snails pace that this has been going at, only leads people to believe that he will never be held accountable, and the apparent inaction is one thing that is hurting the country as a whole.
If you talk to most people, they either believe he did nothing wrong, or the government is protecting him by not prosecuting.
Because the gears of justice turn very slowly when the person doesn't admit guilt.
Which is pretty good for 99% of scenarios since you want to be really sure you aren't imprisoning someone innocent, so there's a high burden of proof and more important than that even there are very strict procedures and rules to be followed so that everything is "fair".
Like the issue is that Trump will just blatantly not follow the rules, then deny that he isn't, then just refuse, then deny again, etc.
So it's taking forever, because you can't just throw out the rules and say "fuck it, you're obviously guilty" even when it's so blatant, no matter how good an idea that seems, it would just be used for evil.
Why is it taken so long, and all these extras steps, and procedural hog wash even happening is a real question, because if it was a "normal" citizen they would already convicted.
He still hasn't even been charged with anything.