In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I witnessed a screaming match at a regulator conference on this topic.
None of the regulations did anything but increase the costs and burden to civilians which turned them against future solutions.
Moreover, solutions were not developed in conjunction, had incomplete focus, and failed to respect scientific facts.
Water department wants to address potential future water shortage primarily through consumer conservation.
They restrict outfall volumes through pushing low flow toilets, faucets, showers and tighten groundwater usage permits.
There's an eerie beauty in the decaying husks of Detroit factories.
The way the morning frost clings to massive rusted panels that once had some now long-forgotten purpose.
The rainbow streaks of oil coating algae-filled ponds of an almost luminescent green.
People like pretty spaces.
Public lands preserve the natural beauty and native wildlife.
Not every thing needs to be commodified.
Republicans policies seem to pretend like we don't need air or water to survive.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Oh I know.
I spent the first part of my career in environmental regulatory compliance.
The shift away from preserving the environment has been a massive propaganda campaign.
As much as I loathe "both sides" arguments, I have experienced the adverse affects of greenwashing or hard-line not-necessarily-science backed campaigns.
The end result has a similar effect as pro-capitalist efforts - no one passes workable legislation and the public turns against supporting environmental causes on a broad scale.
Wastewater department noticing a significant uptick in challenges in processing wastewater specific to human usage.
Increase fats in diets, use of medicines, meth labs, and other people induced chemistry challenges hitting outfall limits.
It takes longer and biological organisms in sewer plants are getting wrecked.
Dilution is the solution, but significantly less water is making its way to waste systems because of the aforementioned water policy changes.