In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I mean I get they dont want to be sued for defamation but fox says Biden definitely stole the election and dog whistle to q anon and het a few million in fines if that.
As if Republicans read the discovery.
They get a soundbm bite and their opponents have to pay for lawyers.
Even if they counter sue for legal fees fox makes the money back in their coverage of the case.
Win win for them.
Its a game of who stops shooting first.
People like carlson prove the lie is more profitable to them than the truth and the threat of lawsuits is only a slight deterrent.
Suing gets them in the news... and so does getting sued.
It's not always about defamation.
The standards of objective reporting are not to accuse anyone of lying.
The reason is that a lie is when someone intentionally makes a false or misleading statement.
A journalist can objectively determine if what someone said is not true, but calling it a lie is subjective.
For example, if I said I have a blue car and you look at my car and see that it's green you know that I made a false statement but I could be colorblind or have simply forgotten what color my car is.
You can't objectively state that I knew what I told you was not true.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But news stations DO say he lied.
When he was president these exact sites would post lists of the lies hed told rhe day he told them.
Now that hes an expresident the are handling him with kid gloves either because he is a citizen so they are less protected by precedent about criticizing government officials or they want to treat ex presidents with a don't speak ill of the dead (metaphorically) attitude.
But if I email my friend to tell him that I intend to say something false in order to increase my ratings, earn more money, or whatever, knowing that the lie I am admitting to will cause real financial harm, that is proof of intent, no?
Pundits would call him a liar, but pundits are not objective.
They report their own opinion alongside the facts.
Their job is to editorialize the news which does not have the objective reporting standard.