In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Well, Trump was the apotheosis of that, stripping away the last shred of the illusion that Republicans were more interested in governing than winning.
They were for small government and personal freedoms, well, except for when it involved women and their reproductive freedoms…or when it involved businesspeople who wanted their religious practices to overrule the law and the needs of their employees…I think you get the picture.
That, coupled with Turtle McForeskin’s utter hypocrisy with regards to the rules of Congress and the Supreme Court, demonstrated how utterly in bad faith the GOP have been conducting themselves.
No, because he allowed the GOP to say the quiet part out loud.
They’ve been able to get away with the fraud that they weren’t defined by the most racist, xenophobic, LGBT-hating bigots among their party because that was only a tiny sliver of their constituency, and besides, they were principled conservatives, for decades now.
We cannot let our guard down and have to remain fiercely vigilant to encourage the youngest eligible voters to do so and to realize how important it is to be involved in what is happening in the world they're stepping into.
Our best hope is certainly that Trump and DeSantis will divide and destroy the GOP but just look at the election this month.
Look how tight the Senate race has been these last few years.
We NEED to widen the majority over the GOP.
We need to retake the House with younger politicians that care about moving the country forward.
We cannot depend alone on a possible splitting of votes between Trump and DeSantis.
It's too dangerous.