I’m honestly afraid to watch this train of events unfold.
Either the coalition fractures quickly or it will be a total calamity.
A sizable portion of Israel has to be horrified.
However, as the parliament works on a threshold system, the seats are not divided directly by votes but rather the votes of parties that passed the threshold.
The extremists ran as two parties together ( ) under one ticket in order to pass the threshold (pooling votes).
The two equivalent (. )
left-wing parties (small, further left) did not join together, and one of them did not pass the threshold so their votes basically went to waste.
That’s why, despite having approx 24 + 11 + 14 = 49% of the votes, the coalition made with these parties has at least 32+14+11+7 = 64 seats out of 120.
But yes, unfortunately there is a minority that’s okay with it.
10.8% is upsettingly high for the ultranationalist parties and too many people subscribe to the cult of Bibi.
Ultra orthodox (not especially nationalist, mostly care about religious policies and protections/funding for the ultra orthodox community) approx 14%.
(The ultra orthodox are basically living in their own bubble world and almost exclusively vote for their own parties, so the 14% was expected as it approximates their demographic (approx 13% of the population).
).
I wish I knew.
There's a lot of history of racism between different groups of Jews, and animosity between secular Ashkenazi's and the Mizrahi's and most other religious parties go back several decades.
To me it all feels like a "fuck you, now it's our turn to get away with murder", very much like how people here wanna "reinstall" Trump.
I left Israel 15 years ago, and my parents are now finally on their way out after retiring.
They’re probably gonna relocate to Romania in the next couple of years.
We’ve all lost faith .
He is a statis/ center roleplaying as right.
He never did what he promised under the excuse that more left elements/courts/US in the government are stopping him.
He never wants to work with the right, he simply has no choice anymore as no one else will.
Even the right dont trust him and they are passing laws before signing the final deals for that reason (a right wing party leader called him a liar, son of a liar).
Its very hard to find a single very right or very left thing Bibi has actually done.