Sweden still has "many steps to take" to win Turkey's approval for its NATO membership bid, a top Turkish official said Tuesday as Sweden's new prime minister visited Ankara in hopes of eliminating the hurdle to his country joining the military alliance.
Sweden and Finland abandoned their longstanding policies of military nonalignment and applied for NATO membership after Russian forces invaded Ukraine in February, fearing that Russian President Vladimir Putin might target them next.
But Turkey, which joined NATO in 1952, has not yet endorsed their accession, which requires unanimous approval from existing alliance members.
The Turkish government has accused Sweden -- and to a lesser degree Finland -- of ignoring its security concerns.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government is pressing the two countries to crack down on individuals it considers terrorists, including supporters of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, and people the government suspects of orchestrating a failed 2016 coup in Turkey.
Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson held talks with Turkish parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop on Tuesday before being welcomed with an official ceremony at Erdogan's presidential palace, where two were scheduled to discuss Sweden's NATO membership.
Turkey also has called for the lifting of an arms embargo imposed following its 2019 incursion into northern Syria to combat Kurdish militants.
Sweden last month said it would lift the embargo.
Kurds in Sweden were also critical.
Kurdo Baksi, a Kurdish writer who has lived in Sweden for decades, called Billström’s remarks disrespectful, given the sacrifices that Syrian Kurds made in fighting the Islamic State group.
Sentop said the Turkish parliament welcomed Sweden's decision to remove restrictions in the defence industry but said groups that Turkey considers to be terrorists were still able to conduct "propaganda, financing and recruitment activities" in Sweden.
Kristersson wrote Monday on Facebook that "we will do significantly more in Sweden through new legislation that provides completely new opportunities to stop participation in terrorist organizations."
Sweden would also support NATO's counter-terrorism fund to support the alliance's ability to fight terrorism, he wrote.
Sweden's new center-right government is taking a harder line not just toward the PKK, but also toward the Syrian Kurdish militia group YPG and its political branch, PYD.
Turkey regards the YPG as the Syrian arm of the PKK.
Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Billström told Swedish Radio there were close links between the PKK and the YPG/PYD, so Sweden would therefore "keep a distance" from Syrian groups in order not to harm relations with Turkey.
Members of Sweden's previous Social Democratic government criticized the comments.
Former Justice Minister Morgan Johansson called the new government's handling of the NATO accession process "worrying and acquiescent.
".
Edit: Maybe it wasn’t clear enough that I don’t find any of this a good thing.
It’s never a good thing when fascists get away from responsibility due to loopholes.
It’s never a good thing, if they’re influential on the government from the outside.
"Both countries have taken a number of steps, but it is difficult to say that they have fulfilled their commitments at this stage," the state-run Anadolu Agency quoted Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu as saying Monday.
In Syria, PYD spokesperson Sama Bakdash accused Turkey of supporting "terrorist factions" in Syria.
"We believe that the Swedish government's bowing to Turkish blackmail contradicts the principles and morals of Swedish society and the humanitarian attitudes that characterized Sweden," she said.
All 30 NATO member countries must officially ratify the accession protocol for Finland and Sweden to join the alliance.
Only the parliaments of Turkey and Hungary have yet to do so.
Last week, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg traveled to Turkey and urged the country to set aside its reservations, insisting the Nordic neighbours had done enough to satisfy Ankara's concerns.
The worst part is that this plays right into the Swedish right wing agenda, as the fascist party "Swedish democrats" recently finished second in the election and have a lot of influence on the newly formed center-right government.
They are well-known racists, with high-ranking members previously supporting and attending Nazi events, and they want reasons to cleanse the country.
It's even better if the pressure is coming from outside, so they can blame it on global politics.
In the 1990s, one of their goals was to deport any migrants who arrived after the 1970s.
Although their strategy has since changed, to be more subtle and less extreme, their views on the matter has not.
So while it may look like Sweden is bowing down to Turkish politics, in all honesty I think it serves the Swedish fascist parties too.
I mean, didn't the leftist party make their entire government dependent on Kakabaveh who used to be a Kurdish militant in Iran and used her critical vote as leverage against the Swedish government to serve Kurdish interests in places like Syria?
They handled this a lot worse than the right wingers.
They'll find a way to push their agendas through; having a center-right government and global politics to blame makes the game much easier for them.
The solutions they presented have always been extremist; the only difference now is that the tactics have changed.
Other political parties, including those on the right, have previously refused to collaborate with the fascist party because they were perceived as extremist and they have largely been ignored.
Meanwhile, the poorly structured government of the time failed to meet the Swedish people's expectations.
This provided an opportunity for the fascist party to begin presenting decisive solutions, which were becoming increasingly appealing.
They ran an aggressive election campaign this time and finished second.
People voted for a leftist party in the party election, but the parliament installed a center-right government.
While the fascist party is not in government, the fact that the other parties continue to refuse to work with them in public works in their favor.
They do not have the same responsibilities as the government, but they are still very powerful (edit: they have mandates but no official government role, so they will be able to escape any guilt).
The Swedish government isn't spineless so much as it lacks unanimity among the people, and I'm sure the center-right wing parties are just happy to get out of the status quo with the help of global politics.
I'd say it's more opportunistic than spineless.
Sure, "opportunistic" is a valid description, although a more fitting one would be "populistic".
But why choose only one?
Why not two?
Or, hell, even all three?
The government is spineless, opportunistic and populistic.
They just presented one of the most ridiculous and underwhelming budgets in modern history, while claiming it fulfills all their election promises.
(Narrator: It didn't).
They presented “solutions” but I’m calling them fascist for a reason.
Also sure, you can call them anything you want.
I just prefer to not underestimate what people will do to push their agendas, so spineless just didn’t do it for me.
Let's not even for a moment kid ourselves that any of their proposals are anything remotely similar to a solution when their playbook was written by the Third Reich...
Edit: Just wanted to add that in no way do I perceive the situation in any positive light.
I was mostly trying to report it as it happened.
You could probably look it all up yourself, but I can spare you a small amount of time with a generic outline.
The details are going to be far more nuanced than I have the time to spare at the moment.
Their rhetorics have changed, to save their own faces in public.
Their campaigns are trying to erase their pasts, they’re more aggressive now than ever about having political power.
They’ve just become sneakier and people are falling for it in droves.
The party was founded by people with fascist ideals and who supported nazis.
They have roots in several political movements which fought to keep Sweden “clean”.
(NRP, BSS, framstegspartiet and the Sweden democrats) Among their founders are a selection of racists, a volunteer in the Waffen-SS etc.
in their 90s, it wasn’t unheard of to make the 88 greeting among their people.
They have history working together with violent white-power movements which they of course deny.
Their youth program was lead by a nazi who was also the editor of a nazi publication at the time (info-14), so basically they were teaching nazi ideals to Swedish youth.
They would come to be associated with NSF, EuroNat, SMR/NMR, ADDE, AfD, Ukip for various reasons and some of which within those groups, supported them financially too.
They call themselves a social conservative party with nationalistic views.
They have antiIslamic and antisemitic views.
In the 90s, they laid bare their goals which read with extreme intolerance toward immigrants, but I don’t have that list currently available.
They’ll deny involvement in rallying white-power activists etc.
They have no military power, (edit: but they have their violent white-power activists) so there’s no way they’ll reach dictatorship.
But their ideals are fascist and they’re just gaining more power, so it’s better to call them for what they are.
Their rhetorics have changed to obfuscate their past, they have no need to be a pure dictatorship when they can just influence the government from the sidelines, basically steering with their mandates from the outside etc.
The “Anti-islam” is not just a response to the rising statistics, it has always been the core of what they do and how they think about immigrants.
They’ll use any opportunity to blame it on “current affairs” or global politics to further their agendas.
If crimes are rising, that’s a good thing for them.