Kevin McCarthy is about to become the perfect embodiment of the phrase, "be careful what you wish for.
".
I can only hope his caucus of deranged, rabid weasels makes every day of his dream Speakership a miserable nightmare.
It would have been a Blue Wave if it wasn’t for Republican Gerrymandering.
The numbers are so skewed because of this.
How can a third of the country (alt.Right), represent half of the electorate??
This is the kind of stuff the younger generations Z will destroy and abolish IF the Boomer Alt Right don’t deconstruct our democracy to the point of violence and civil war before that happens.
First-there needs to be more awareness and education about how unfair the playing field is with Gerrymandering, and how you’ve got better odds at a carnival than what the original framers of our country had intended.
Do we really want a government ruled by the minority??
An extreme on at that?
?
Second-this needs to be the Liberals resounding primary message from here on out.
This has to be one of the most important messages to get out, not that everything else is not important, but all that other stuff like women’s rights, the economy, equal rights, the environment, climate change, our democracy etc.
means nothing without the right people prioritizing these goals as well, this is the key to getting substantive change for people who really need it-not a party who has zero platform and is diametrically opposed to these changes.
First-there needs to be more awareness and education about how unfair the playing field is with Gerrymandering, and how you’ve got better odds at a carnival than what the original framers of our country had intended.
Do we really want a government ruled by the minority??
An extreme one at that?
?
Second-this needs to be the Liberals resounding primary message from here on out.
This has to be one of the most important messages to get out, not that everything else is not important, but all that other stuff like women’s rights, the economy, equal rights, the environment, climate change, our democracy etc.
means nothing without the right people in Congress prioritizing these goals as well, this is the key to getting substantive change for people who really need it-not a party who has zero platform and is diametrically opposed to these changes.
Third- This might be a long shot, but until the Gerrymandering can be rectified permanently, we as a country need to get more people involved in the voting process.
Make it easier to do, like from our phones (with a verification process of coarse-banking, or IRS, or much like a passport) we do everything else with our phones, we might as well vote.
Think of how many more people would be in that pool now.
This would offset the current gerrymandered counties.
More legislation regarding all of this will take time and technology, but it is doable…and our country deserves it.
Are there any gerrymandered states left that also have ballot initiatives?
Most of the blue states that moved to nonpartisan districting did so via ballot initiative, but I know lots of states don't have that process.
What potential consequences do you believe Elon Musk could face for publicly undermining Ukraine's ability to rely on Starlink?
Or for tweeting that he believes China should annex Taiwan?
As a veteran with friends still serving, it is absolutely terrifying to think that they could be relying on a defense contractor that has advocated for Kremlin and Chinese positions.
Does the fact that there was no red wave put Musk into additional jeopardy?
All I see is you folks in the media talking about Twitter.
Isn't Musk's affinity for authoritarians and position as a defense contractor an equally important story?
My worry is that Musk is able to convince the media that all of his statements and conversations are just his expression of free-speech.
They seem ignorant of all the levers available to the USG to bring Musk back in line, or remove him from the equation.
I think the media has completely lost the plot on this story.
Yes, twitter is an important issue, and because their noses are so deeply buried in Twitter, I understand why they feel compelled to report on it so much.
The veterans and servicemen I talk to are much more worried about his mitts being all over key strategic defense programs.
There is a reason that Raytheon and Boeing don't do things like this.
They understand that the USG needs to be able to rely on them, and that trust is their most important currency.
I have a lot of respect for Ian Bremmer, and if Musk really spoke to Putin before spouting all of his propaganda, the USG needs to exercise those levers.