As events of winter 2020 showed it may break out on a swift move, especially with rusnia weakened as war in Ukraine backfires.
When they're invaded with russian onuce (foot wraps) on the ground, and annexed that may be way more difficult.
Maybe if Kalinowski battalion grows up in numbers it may be a difference?
It would be an attack on another country.
Giving them an excuse to enter the war.
Even if Ukraine already considers them a participant in the war.
The important part is the fact, that Belarus thinks it is not.
Wanting to stay neutral-isch.
So Ukraine will be careful in attacking them \[or anything on their territory\] in order for them not to shift this sentiment, which would be opening a two-front war again.
For obvious reasons as this isn’t a clear cut conventional conflict, if you were under the assumption it is….I don’t know why.
There’s nothing to suggest it is.
Many wars of conquest have a fig leaf of plausibility.
The wars of England and France often had the English monarch's claim to the throne.
(Conversely, we'd see France back the Stuarts as a FU afterwards).
And on the prelude to the invasion of Manchuria, Japan staged a false flag attack on a railroad.
They even reinstated the last Emperor of China as head of a puppet government.
Korea was a hot mess before the Korean War.
South Korea had a very dodgy election boycotted by several groups, and was undergoing a NK-backed insurgency, plus frequent border clashes.
WWII in Europe started because Hitler claimed that ethnic Germans were being prosecuted by Poland, and that Poland, along with its allies the UK and France, were planning to encircle and invade Germany.
Plus, Poland "attacked" first.
(Operation Himmler, a false flag attack by the Germans using Polish uniforms).
Saddam used claims of economic warfare, oil theft, and Iraqi nationalist claims that Kuwait was an integral part of Iraq to justify his invasion and annexation.
Military objects make an effective contribution to the war effort and whose destruction offers a clear advantage.
Considering Russian military's reliance on railroads, as well as the tracks in question being used to move troops, it very clearly a valid military target.