In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Are they ever going to look at the shortcomings of the healthcare industry, is it prepared for the next pandemic or will they have again to ration PPE's?
Will they continue to close hospitals and have less beds in the name of profit?
That was my point...we keep blaming Trump, with good reason, but we never looked at the healthcare industry which has closed many hospitals and beds in the name of profit, which did not even have enough PPE's for healthcare workers as they went with "Just in Time" management to make more profit while we pay twice as much as most other industrialized country...if there was a time for universal healthcare, this was it...but we prefer going after an easy target instead...
Looking to the DoD or CIA or any other intelligence org to be the source of pandemic intelligence other than from a defense angle is a not their primary role.
Intelligence agencies aren't spying about pandemics folks.
The world has many interacting medical based organizations that monitor pandemics all the time.
Again, by rule, the NCMI is the lead agency on pandemic intelligence for the United States.
It's not an exception.
Additionally, the NCMI doesn't solely view medical intelligence from the lens of a "defense angle" as you believe.
From multiple angles; not solely based on a defense posture.
Where's your DOD policy citation that it's solely for defense posture?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What do you mean by this statement?
DOD policy requires NCMI to take the lead on medical intelligence, including infectious disease.
Information is then distributed to DOD and DNI.