Iraq was launching Scuds at Israel in the Gulf War.
So we sent Patriot systems in.
They could not stop supersonic Scuds, they were only designed to hit subsonic bombers with a huge radar cross section.
Even if they hit one, the body of the Scud would still be landing in Tel Aviv and smashing an apartment.
A Patriot can hit a cruise missile tho.
It's just a small airplane.
That is simply not true.
The famous analysis of the effectiveness of Patriots in the Gulf War was faulty.
First, it used direct strikes only, which is not how ground to air missiles work, they explode near the target to damage or destroy it with shrapnel.
Second, the study only counted destroyed missiles, not missiles that were downed or missed their target due to being damaged.
And add into that the Patriot had a software bug, a floating error, and needed to be reset every 24 hours.
This was easily solved with a software update after the Gulf War.
But the false info persists to this day.
The Israelis showed, tho, that necessity really is the mother of invention.
They invented a system that really can take out supersonic, tumbling (ie.
erratic) ballistic rockets.
Finally… Nuclear weapons.
After such an attack on wherever Putin may be inside Russia and if he dies, his replacement will be… less inclined to listen to anyone including China or India and will therefore be more inclined than ever to retaliate with them against Ukraine.
The Patriots being used in the gulf war might as well be child’s toys compared to a modern Patriot PAC3 though, which are designed specifically to intercept high speed missiles.
The obvious reason being that doing such a thing will take away the whole “using diplomacy as a means of ending the conflict” off the table for both parties and it will simply be a war with no realistic end in sight which neither side can afford both financially and well, with an actual fighting force.
Ukraine enjoys western support as long as they’re hitting valid military targets both within Ukraine and (non-NATO weapons specifically) Russia.
Anything else and the running tap of democracy that’s been fed to Ukraine so far will stop.