In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
For anyone wondering about the “red wave” that only seemed to happen in Florida… DeSantis cheated HARD by extreme racial gerrymandering, and disenfranchising voters who completed their sentences, but might have owed money to the state.
Also, mail-in ballots that were postmarked by Election Day, but received after 7pm, were NOT COUNTED and tossed out.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The FL Democratic Party is a husk of a political machine, .
Apparently running the inly Dem to win a statewide office since 2012 is not a winning strategy to them.
For what is no surprise to us, the party that screams about voter / election fraud is committing it in broad daylight with these horrible, anti-democratic measures.
The Princeton Gerrymandering Project, which uses various metrics to grade the fairness of districts, gave Florida an F.
As a Floridian, I think trotting out a former republican governor-for the third time-was really stupid.
The state party follows the Clinton wing’s focus on slick looking business people and weak identity politics.
And then they basically ceded all Spanish speaking discourse to the GOP.
She did, but my point is more that the Dem establishment .
Why?
Because they thought a DINO who famously crashed and burned in a Senate race after treating his Governorship as a lame duck term and gave the world Marco Rubio was the one to unseat DeSantis.
I voted for Fried in the primary before I moved, and would have voted for Crist (again), but the FL Dems have no leadership, no plan (other than hope John Morgan runs) and no future.
It sucks.
Someone who speaks to working class people.
Stop catering to the wants of the rich Dem transplants in Ft Lauderdale.
They’re not gonna win you the state.
Damn that sucks dude.
Signature matching is BS.
If you looked at all the checks I would sign for just one round of bills, there would be like 5 different signatures lol.