In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Nah, California has a ⅔ threshold for raising local taxes by ballot proposition, and passed in 2008, narrowly failed in 2012, and handily passed in 2016.
Arizona is purple; 132 may stymie tax increases at the ballot box for a few election cycles, but eventually the public will vote to tax themselves for pay for real needs.
60% is a much lower threshold than 66.667%.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
132 is bullshit.
No Ballot measures with a tax increase to pay thing like schools, fire departments, libraries and police to name a few will ever get passed again.
While single issue sounds nice it’s going to complicate things more than fix them.
The writers of the bills got what they wanted.
Minority rule.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Prop 129 gives the conservatives another avenue to get things thrown off the ballot.
They’ll sue to say the ballot measure is more than 1 issue.
They are, but the good news is that each day more and more of the old, uber-conservative Arizonans continue dying, and more and more of the younger, less conservative Arizonans reach voting age.
I haven't seen figures, but anecdotally I've heard a lot of conservative Californians have been moving to Arizona, Nevada, Texas and Utah, and while not "progressive" by any means, "California Conservatives" tend to be a lot more moderate than conservatives elsewhere.
That’s California.
Here in Arizona a ballot measure to increase taxes by .1% to fund rural fire districts failed to pass.
If rural fire districts can’t get help no one stands a chance.
I can guarantee that some of the propositions like 209 will be challenged and never become law.
It happened with prop 208 that got passed by the voters then conservatives sued and it never became law.