I don't think it's fair to question Aleksey Korostelev's loyalties when he makes it perfectly clear exactly where they lie:
Shouldn't punishment be for something you do, not something you say?
In other words did they actually help somebody with equipment and it was established by a court or this was just some weirdly phrased line?
The call for helping conscripted was the nail in the coffin.There were previous incidents where they were issued warnings.
The warnings issued was about referring Crimea as russian and not having latvian subtitles which is a must for broadcasting on latvian TV.
They didnt take it seriously.They even showed up without any translator to the hearing discussing the warnings, fully expecting it will happen in russian.
Because if it's the latter I don't see how it's different from Russian hillbillies gleefully cheering closing of a European media (BBC, DW) in Russia, because they said something bad about Putin...
For an reference, the law dictates that any official meeting with government officia or government issued paper must be in the official countries language-latvian.
Grabbing people from their homes against their will and forcing them into the meat grinder of the Ukraine war, or else facing years of imprisonment under undoubtedly horrible condition makes them victims, plain and simple.
Because the real world doesn't operate in a way that puts every single person in a conflict neatly on the "saintly good" and "irredeemably evil" sides.
Movies do that.
And idiots think so.
You can support Ukraine, be against this war, mourn their dead, and still feel empathy for young men on the Russian side dying for absolutely nothing.
At the same time.
Crazy, I know.
In case you're not aware, they even sent some anti-war protesters to the front (to conveniently die there, I'm guessing).
Incidentally, this "support" TV Rain wanted to give, misconstrued as sending physical items, was actually a chance of telling their stories.
And again, only an idiot would prevent the soldier of an opposing force from giving a testimonial about how shit the condition they are in is.
Leaving us with only the Russian government's story about how great everything is going for everyone.
Good job.