Ok, so I can provide some much needed context here.
This article leaves out many details in order to paint Brazil in a bad way (theres already plenty that my country does wrong, no need to manipulate headlines).
This warship is an aircraft Carrier boight from the french in the early 2000s, and serve many years in the Brazilian navy.
Being an older ship, it was constructed with some hazardous materials like asbestos.
The navy knew about it, so it started a decomission plan around 2016 or so.
In 2021, it was sold for scrap to a turkish company, wich planned to tow it to turkey.
When the ship reached Gibraltar, the company received a message from the turkish governament denieing port acess to the ship, due to the hazardous materials.
Since then, the company has been trying to find a port where they could dock, to no avail.
In the end of 2022, the ship was towed back to near brazilian waters, where it was also denied port acess.
The company them communicated the brazilian navy that they were abandoning ownership of the vessel, and ir order for it to not be floating around willy nilly, the navy took controle of the ship.
When they did, it was discovered that the hull was in a deplorable state, with three holes already formed.
The navy then decided to make a controlled sinking, bringing it to deep waters and removing all toxic materials they could before it.
Thats what these articles so willingly leave out: The ship would sink one way or the other.
The decision to sink it voluntarially was so it was done with the least risk involved.
Thing is though, the standard we should be holding them too is that they’re supposed to give us the full story.
This is a pretty egregious and probably deliberate misinterpretation of events that paints a whole country in a really bad light when they in fact were doing the right thing.
There are journalists all around the world busting their asses and doing amazing work, investigating and uncovering invaluable information and stories.
Unfortunately, many news articles are recycled, watered down, and condensed in a click bait media format.
If you are discouraged by the quality of your news please look to the original source as all these garbage articles stem from some amazing journalism.