>The report released last month showed that the gender pay gap within jobs in Korea stood at 18.8 percent, ranking the country second among 15 countries surveyed, including Japan, Canada, Spain and the United States.
Funny how they didn't provide any sources on that statement, and the only source evidenced on the article only accounts for gross salary and gender, not positions or total worked hours.
Source used in the article: This is the source they are using.
(Added because they were too lazy to actually link it on the article, just took a screen capture and posted it).
The original publication date was December 4th, 2022 and it was last updated on December 5th, 2022.
As per /r/worldnews/wiki submissions should be to articles published within the last week.
This bot finds outdated articles.
It's impossible to be 100% accurate on every site, send me a message if you notice an error or would like this bot added to your subreddit.
You can also download my if you'd like to see publish dates added to all article links on reddit.
What a shit article.
Doesn't provide sources but after some digging, turns out it is doing exactly what it says it isn't doing.
Using gross salaries across the board, without tracking what the jobs actually are or if the person is working part time.
Of course a full time neurosurgeon is going to outearn a part time fast food worker, no matter the gender.
However if an in depth analysis is performed and a gendered wage gap is found within equal work scenarios, then that should be eliminated.
Gender should never be a factor for employment or wages.
It only takes into consideration the gross earnings, not the actual fields or positions, which makes said chart useless and pointless for formal analytics.
Edit: And this is the part where people who can't understand statistics and didn't read the sources or my comment downvote me out of anger.
Mostly because they can't make a logical statement to discuss the reality of the situation.
How unscientific of you.
You know that half of all humans are women right?
That simplifies this quite a bit.
So if a bunch of highly paid male neurosurgeons force otherwise qualified women to work in fast food instead of making up half the surgeon workforce, then clearly that’s a wage gap and sexist as hell, kind of like your comment.
Are you being unscientific and obtuse on purpose?
Nobody said or tested for that, which is exactly what I am complaining about.
If a qualified neurosurgeon is unable to find a job BECAUSE of her gender, that is a problem.
If there are just no positions and both men and women are facing the same problem, then it isn't sexism or wage gap, it is a different problem altogether.
You are either an inflamatory troll or you just can't process logic and statistics.
Correlation does not equal causation, and those kinds of leaps in logic are what leads to sexism.
Yes, a hundred times yes.
Teachers and care workers get paid shit wages for functions that are vital to our society, while most universities and higher education keep giving benefits and steering women towards STEM.
It is not that STEM is not important, but we also cannot automate teaching or nurses.
Teachers are fucking vital and they need both support and liveable wages.
And both teachers and care workers are positions vastly dominated by women.
However research shows(Through non definitive answers despite a multitude of studies) that we don't fully understand why those fields are dominated by women.
There are also many cultural factors, such as traditional gender roles which make studies like the one posted by OP practically useless.
Traditionally women get more room to work part time, while also taking care of their studies and receiving support from their parents or spouses, while men are usually expected to work full time and study.
If they both have the same job, and same hourly wage, the woman in this scenario will still earn half, as she is only working part time, which is a flaw on the study(By only taking in consideration gross monthly, versus hourly wages).
I am not denying that the problem probably exists, and that it needs to be fixed, what I am angry at is at either grossly incompetent researchers, or the more grim alternative, researchers with an agenda to politicize an issue instead of doing a proper research that helps find the true causes for this disparity, so it can be fixed.