In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Reestablish the Fairness Doctrine and immediately apply it to all media, including cable tv, internet news sites, and social media, making it illegal in all cases (with C-Suite Executive prison time, not just fines,) to present lies or biased opinions as truthful news.
2 - immediately require every news channel to fall victim to the fallacy of both-sidesism.
Do you really want to have to address the most extreme views of the white nationalist movement as if they are a valid or reasonable viewpoint?
Our society has been infiltrated by fascists.
The insurrectionists were every day people.
And so many people still pretend to be so blind to the blatant manipulation of the media and population.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yeah...
But this would be a deeply concerning blow to free speech.
I posted a detailed response to the top comment, but the TLDR is that this would:
Yeah.
But should posting a racist meme be illegal?
How racist should this meme be before the person should face jail time?
What about everyone posting racist memes in r/terribleFacebookmemes ?
Should they be jailed?
Should Reddit shutdown because that sub exists?
Should the CEO of Reddit be in jail because that sub exists?
How would you ever link a particular meme to a violent act?
Would the creator of the meme, or the most recent poster be liable?
Would all the intermediate posters be liable as well?
What if someone posted the same meme but that particular post was never seen by that attacker?
Does this only apply to racist memes?
One could argue that the BLM memes leading up to the riots also instigated violence.
Would the posters of those memes be liable for riot damage?
you definitely can both sides this.
its a matter of media, simple as that.
have you seen cnn, msnbc, the new yorker, huff post, npr, politico, even mainstream podcast hosts are practically democratic radio speakers.
What commonly held left wing belief is comparable to replacement theory?
Or the belief Jan 6th was righteous and necessary?
Or that gays shouldn't be allowed to marry?
Or black people wouldn't get killed by cops if they just comply?
Or that Catholic priests shouldn't have the same mandatory reporting requirements as every other profession that works with children?
I just don't understand how the government is able to protect and defend these organizations privacy legally on the public web whilst not simultaneously being able to enforce legal restrictions on US based organizations.
That would take a Constitutional Amendment.
I definitely agree, but in what reality would 2/3 of the states agree to this?
They would literally be agreeing to significantly lowering their voting power.