In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The legitimate answer to that question is that FDR won so many times in a row that there was a push by republicans to limit the amount of times a president can run so they could actually win.
I’m genuinely curious why people believe this.
Isn’t an election enough?
If someone is representing people the way they want to be represented, shouldn’t they be able to be elected?
Executives in other countries don’t have term limits though, which is why Merkel led Germany for so long.
I also don’t think that the president is comparable to a senator or house rep.
The president is one individual who possesses a huge amount of authority while a senator/rep is one of many individuals.
I can see the logic of limiting someone so powerful the two terms, although I actually disagree with doing that personally.
If someone is good at what they are doing and people like them, what is the point of limiting their ability to serve?
Then couldn't you say the same thing about a congressman who had been in Congress for 30 some odd years?
Get some new people in there with fresh ideas and not have same dinosaurs blocking any forms of progress.
An individual member of congress doesn't have nearly the power or the pulpit of the president.
90% of congress are no-name dickbags.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I think the remedy is to vote for different people.
There are substantial benefits to having people in congress who are familiar with the chamber and know what they're doing.
I think the truth is we get the government we deserve.
I agree what you're describing is an issue, but we need to make clear that it's an issue to the voters, and have a solution to the issue.
I had a lot of issues with Biden, but I think his messaging around "build-back-better" was really good actually for that reason.
We need to sell to voters that they deserve better.
That their children deserve better.
I don't think term limits meaningfully accomplishes that.
I'd argue it actually increases the importance of corporate donors by forcing new people to fight it out every few years.