“I think it is extremely valuable to remember that without what defines us and gives depth to our lives, we can have neither the strenh nor the awareness nor the right reasons to adequately face the challenges.
The Jewish people have always known this, more than many others and this is the reason why its identity and its traditions are still so alive and it was precisely this ability that made the Jewish people so resilient, despite having gone through so many hardships atrocities, including the ignominy of the racial laws as far as we are concerned".
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said this at the ceremony for the Jewish holiday Hanukkah, underway at the Jewish museum in Rome.
"Another great lesson is that identity is not exclusive: the fact of being proud of our traditions does not prevent us from contaminating and contaminating ourselves.
This is the other great strenh that you represent, because you are also a fundamental part of the Italian identity.
Your added value has become part of who we all are".
And she continued: "This means that identity does not exclude but is something that adds, that strenhens everyone.
After all, the word respect comes from the Latin 'respicere' which means to look deeply: only when I am aware of who I am, do I look without fear of what is around me".
"All the darkness in the world cannot extinguish the flame of a candle where that flame is a hope, it is our ability to believe that each of us, in the smallest or largest gesture, can make a difference.
It is an extraordinary teaching, today we need that little light and hope.
This is how I try every day to live my job, trying to do what sometimes seems like 'we won't succeed, we will fail...'.
Instead, we must continue to believe that we can succeed".
Then, passing "from the sacred to the profane", Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni cited Italy's "victory" over the European battle to impose a price cap on natural gas as an example.
"I come here with a small, big victory, bigger than small: in Europe we managed to get the upper hand on the gas price ceiling.
It is a battle that many gave up as doomed and we brought it home.
The will and the awareness it always starts from one thing: being aware of who you are and being proud of who you are.
When you have that awareness, you have the ability to tell something more and to teach and learn from others," said the premier.
"The trip to Israel is not scheduled but it will be one of the next trips I will make, hopefully in the first months of next year".
And the Democrats were once the party of slavery and segregation.
Turns out parties and movements can change in 60 years.