One thing not being covered is the legislatures serial impeachment attempts against him since he assumed office.
They gutted his appointments and pushed to keep him from governing at all.
His reaction - dissolving the legislature and calling for snap elections -is understandable when under a constant lawfare siege, though it was also a terrible move in terms of actual capabilities as well as optics.
I've noticed that modern propaganda uses people's emotions without respect to the actual issue.
Someone who failed a coupe can shout "they're silencing the truth!"
And people who are already poor/overworked/angry will simply react because he's on "their side".
To achieve worldwide peace, we need individuals to be happy, healthy, and satisfied.
The more humanity is on average, poor, the closer we are to violence.
He announced that he wanted to dissolve the Congress after it was planning to impeach him for no real reason.
People of Peru have been asking for a new constitution and are opposed to the Congress.
Castillo just screwed up and over reached but the problem is definitely more nuanced and complex than a simple attempted coupe.
Still that's no excuse to close the legislative Power, besides, there's no way to ensure a dictator to renounce to it's new powers or to avoid an abuse of them, just look at Lenin, Castro, Pinochet or Mussolini.
It´s way more funny to see how you support a guy who wanted to become a dictator and close the congress without the approval of the people, there´s no guarantee that he will renounce to his new powers in the long run, also the new president wasn´t elected because you can´t organize an election in one day and someone must occupy the office, also She was the vice president who was put in charge by the same Pedro so It´s still the same party in power.
Let´s see your reaction if trump or some far right extremists does the same.
If the people of Peru voted for him because they wanted a dictator then that´s what they will have , If you excuse me, I have to finnish an essay, Long Live and fuck You.
Long live authoritarian rulers who controll all aspects of the states because obviously that´s what Peruvians want, release Pedro Castillo and give him the powers to make all the laws that he wants without supervision, give him total control over the military and police, destroy the courts and screw the constitution.
many in Perú don´t want Castillo back, neither they want the new president, the want presidencial elections, after all, they didn´t choose her, She was put as vice-president by Castillo and they are both from the same party, It´s logical to at least for the goverment to renew the democratic mandate and restore order choosing a new president.
the people choose castillo as president, not to be a dictator, nobody can use the excuse of "the voice of the people" to close democratic institutions and absorve It´s powers, also there is something that you need to know, Castillo is against same sex marriage and abortion, Is It also the will of the people to prohibit abortion or homosexual relationships?
Again, the choose him as PRESIDENT, not as DICTATOR, you are the problem here, you don´t see that concentrate all that power in one single individual will never end well that´s why a democracy stands for, avoid concentration of power in one single individual.
When Castillo tried this stupid coup He went against his functions as president.