There is a cultural affliction in Russia that we just don’t understand, it’s something in the lines of: I don’t give a shit about any one else, and they won’t give a shit about me.
They don’t care about some else at all and just want to fly under the radar.
It’s a thing that’s been this way for a long time because of the regimes that’s been in place there for so long.
I'm not being very nuanced actually.
I really am saying that it is a cultural issue that as far as I can tell goes back hundreds if not thousands of years.
Russians see their land and culture as something that must be preserved 100% at all costs.
This is not how the universe works.
Fuck em, let's change them for them.
Why do you Americans always conflate the issue with your internal politics?
The rest of world doesn't care about your hypercharged Team Red vs Team Blue bullshit.
2) If you cannot see the whole Authoritarian vibe being pushed forth by the Republicans you are blind.
3) The Russian Disinformation campaign has worked on the right wing voters.
Fox News, OANN, Newsmax.
Listen to the shit they say.
This would be a fascinating study indeed.
The problem we will have is quantifying and measuring "defiant attitude" at large as a representation of cumulative individual effects.
4) After earlier attempts at attacking various segments of society (Muslim's, Mexicans, other recent immigrants) They are now primarily focusing on the Trans / LGBTQ community with laws and such.
The Republicans would love to rule the USA just like the Russians do now.
The best tactic I can think of is for NATO to immediately and steadily make clear that they will assist in using all force necessary to push back Russia to the border (pre-2014 border!)
and NO FURTHER.
The last two questions are what haunts me and the reason why I have decided to take the stance I am taking in my mind.
I will leave you to brainstorm why without spelling it out, because.
How many lives will dropping a nuke save 5 years from now (in the eyes of either one side or the other) should this war continue to progress?
Russia is losing serviceable men and cannot muster enough forces to mount an offensive that would capture and occupy the entire regions it maintains to capture.
Russia does not currently have enough ammunition/machinery/weapons to accomplish its current goals.
West will need to create more weapons to accomplish its goals of holding back more Russian forces in coming years.
I am perhaps more skeptical than you are, in that I believe that Putin has stated his goals clearly and that they are achievable, ultimately.
However, this timeline might be counted in years not months.
Finally, regarding nukes, I agree 100% that as of February 2023, this is not a war that nuclear weapons solves for either party.
However, if Russia is allowed to commit several years and a few million souls, and China is looming, and America is getting scared, well, things are looking very different and nukes become a discussion of saving lives from the side who stands to lose many more...
Let's also keep in mind that victory for Putin would have to mean in the very least taking over the Donbas, Luhansk, and Kherson oblasts completely.
No timeline has been given.
If Putin is prepared to dedicate 5-10 years more to this project, what then?
What is preventing the people getting shit on to remain so complacent in Russia?
I think this is the part I can't properly understand.
This is why instead of describing them as malevolent I describe them as stupid.
Same.
Perhaps "ignorant, barbaric, and apathetic" is a better description than "stupid".
I should also add that I am referring to Russian population as a whole, not a specific individual.
Also, you immigrating here would point to your intelligence being higher than average, let's be honest.