Today was yet another pretty quiet day.
We had some country-wide air raid alerts, but it was just Russian MiG-31K as usual, which they mostly use to scare us, but also for reconnaissance, because apparently it is used in a pair with their AWACS aircraft.
There’s a pretty high chance that the next big missile strike might happen in the next couple of days, because it will be orthodox Christmas soon, and they will almost certainly try to ruin it for us.
The strikes on Russian bases and weapon/ammo warehouses seem to happen almost daily now, which is great to see.
Most of them are happening in the occupied parts of Zaporizhzhia oblast, it might have something to do with the next planned offensive by our forces, which a lot of our officials have been openly talking about recently.
I’m not sure why they are even talking about our planned offensives, I guess either you can’t hide it anyway, or they are trying to mislead Russia by talking about it, which also might be the case, it wouldn’t be the first time that it happens during this war.
Actually, the timing also kinda fits, because we are expecting weather to become much colder in the next couple of days, and the change is supposed to be very sudden.
The temperature is hovering around -1c to +5c right now, but in just two days from now the forecast shows that it will go down to -17c, so the ground might finally harden and fighting will definitely accelerate when it happens.
The news about us getting new vehicles from France are also amazing, the AMX-10 might not be tracked, but it is still using the gun of a tank, a western one too, so it might be the start of a wave of new weapons being approved for transfer, moving the red line farther back.
It will be great if we get Bradleys as well, and we just might get them soon, otherwise I don’t think there would be so much talk about them right now.
I admire your daily updates through all you and your country has been through.
(You'd do well as a journalist/reporter as an aside).
When this is all said and done, your dailies should be a book.
I'd totally buy a copy of it.
This is how Ukraine did it.
They bled and died and fought at Euromaiden, to kick Yanukovych out.
Now they're still fighting.
From 24.02.2022 to 04.01.2023 (Day 315) estimated Russian losses so far (change since previous day):
I agree these are likely factors, but the recent statement by France (re: tanks), sounds like the argument about "objections by allies" has been resolved.
(I wonder if it has to do with the apparent resolution of the political situation in the US; with Germany and France not wanting to be standing around with their dicks in their hands in case the US Republicans succeeded in sabotaging Ukraine support in the US - which it looks like they will not succeed).
So I think that if this Political calculus is involved (and it may not - - I'm just trying to piece together a picture based on a highly inaccurate media narrative), that this represents a change of the magnitude of Biden winning the presidency in 2020, if not moreso.
And if that's true - Russia better start seriously considering on which terms they'd like to withdraw troops and begin reparations (and repatriations).
Because they're going to have an absolutely terrible first quarter of 2023.