In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
So with this and the whole Speaker can be voted out at any time thing what stops democrats from just looking around the room, waiting for enough republicans to be absent and calling for the speaker to be replaced?
Republicans all come back into congress, vote to remove the new speaker and put McCarthy back in.
Not only would it accomplish nothing for the Dems, but it will probably increase Republican support behind McCarthy.
Electing a new speaker in the house, and then promptly voting for a different rules package that includes something a long the lines of "a motion to vacate the speaker can only be called if a bipartisan group of 40, 20 from the minority and 20 from the majority, call to do so", or "to vacate the speaker, every member of the house must call to do so" would essentially stop the republican party from being able to vacate the speaker at that point, as it would require the minority cauces (dems) to join in on it.
They can also just vote for a rules package that just doesn't allow for the speaker to be vacated during the 118 Congressional term, meaning it would have to change only upon death, registration, or after the next election cycle when the new congressional term starts.
Obviously something like this won't just happen, but it's possible if Dems want to play dirty.
It would also call into question what designates someone as a member of the Minority or majority party, but that chaos could be enough to grind the house to a halt, and stop it from really doing anything substantial over the next two years.
No faux investigations, no virtue signaling legislation, etc...
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !