Considering their atrocious record of facilitating Nazi theft from Jewish businesses and families, then keeping the ill-gotten goods themselves, no surprise here.
So basically, the article says that they’re still looking to do so and rather, just in a way that’s legal and they want to make sure that the global relations they make with other nations is consistent… and people are mad about this?
Did y’all even read the article?
It’s easy to get up in arms because you personally feel a certain way about the war(most of us do), but really, Switzerland is taking the exact same and safe approach to this that virtually any other country would in their position.
There are standards, laws, and regulations that have to be adhered to.
If you really think that international politics is as simple as “you broke you pay”, you’re dense.
The hate here is unjustified.
Most people didn’t even read the article, and honestly the article wasn’t worth posting to begin with because this is just the same standard process virtually any nation is going to take.
There’s nothing particularly notable here.
They were just looking to use Russia/Ukraine for clicks.
And before some dumbass thinks I’m in support of Russia, no.
But holy shit the comments here genuinely hurt my skull.
How hard is it to understand that global politics usually aren’t gonna be one and done, regardless of how simple the situation might be perceived to be?
I’m sure wartime/global politics is pretty easy to pick up given how many redditors here who are “experts” lmfao.
Just because they didn’t reach an immediate conclusion doesn’t mean they won’t reach one.
Completely close Russia and stop trading with it?
No!
We will implement them in stages and at the same time create 100500 loopholes to bypass them.
The transfer of large-scale weapons to Ukraine?
No!
We will wait until the summer and even in this case we will send small batches of equipment that is already gathering dust in warehouses and awaiting disposal (while the West is also saving).
Stop flirting with dictators and pretending to be right, as if the dictator doesn't give a shit about laws and regulations.
Europe has nothing to learn?
Maybe she needs to arrange a couple of her Mariupol?
Transfer the seized assets?
No!
We will comply with certain norms in relation to a country that does not comply with these norms.
Switzerland doesn't want all the other criminals it keeps money and assets for to withdraw everything from Switzerland.
Banking for crooks is what Switzerland does.
They can't afford to alienate their biggest customers.
I'm not criticizing Switzerland for banking.
I'm criticizing them for banking for dictators, criminals, and all sorts of monsters who can hide their money there because of the Swiss banking secret.
Anyone can deposit money there no questions asked.
The source of the money is kept secret by the customer.