The war on drugs was always a lie.
It was created to help mute the antiwar efforts and demonize people of color.
And also make for-profit prisons a source of revenue.
If only people like you were around for the crack epidemic of the 90’s.
Everyday people had to take to war against the crack that was destroying their communities.
Literally all of GTA San Andreas was about how there needed to be an actual war on the drugs that are actually dangerous and werw killing people.
You legalize all drugs people don’t know what drugs can do to destroy individuals and communities, especially communities of color.
You think the bloods and the crips who were slinging dope on every street corner were cia?
You think the cia went around to every fucking street corner in the 90’s usa and introduced drugs.
They don’t have the manpower to do so.
That’s some copium right there.
Irrespective of the cia involvement in the drug trade, it was based off of South American cartels who would ship their dope to the Us.
The rich did cocaine.
The poor did crack.
If the cia didn’t introduce the drugs to the American market, and I assure you there is no physical way possible for them to get an entire country, every city street, hooked on it, some other groups would have.
It was inevitable once people had post ww2 prosperity and Americans had cash to spend on reckless pleasure seeking.
Why do I say de facto legality?
Because despite being illegal on paper, they were incredibly widespread and policing drugs was hardly enforced and difficult to enforce.
Cops were bribed to look the other way by the dealers.
Hard drugs needed to be more illegal, not less.
They needed to be kept out of the communities.
The only parties profiting from the drug trade are the cartels and the gangbangers.
Again, the entire plot of San Andreas, which might not be relevant for you today, was that there were those slinging dope to the hood ruining the lives of innocent people.
How were the ballas dealt with by Grove street?
The gangbangers who sold dope were killed by CJ, Sweet and company because the corrupt police refused to lock up the dealers.
Today’s fools think we got to “legalize all drugs” when that was the exact opposite lesson of the 90’s.
De facto legalization through poor policing or de jure legalization of hard drugs (prior to their criminalization) only created havoc on the streets.
State-sanctioned drug dealing.
They made crack to destroy the poor.
Of course the rich could afford cocaine - crack destroys the mind and body much quicker.
And it's cheaper to create large quantities of.
That's the point.