In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I am hesitant to enjoy seeing the infighting; reminds me too much of how the Republican Tea Party started.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The washinon examiner is a right wing news source.
So that established, it makes this piece hilarious.
Bc in a civil war there are traitors, those who betray the established order.
That, at least by those in power, is how its seen.
So they’re calling those who oppose McCarthy, traitors to the party basically.
A republican civil war where its corporate first fascists versus Christian fascists.
It's sad that in the Republican Party it always seems to be extremists pulling the party to the right.
And in the Democratic Party it always seems to be moderates pulling the party to the right.
To be fair, the republicans aren’t pulled right.
Their messaging has always pushed their voters further right.
If your message is constantly going on about crime and violence, people will eventually become primed for violence.
They’ve been doing exaggerations to win elections since Reagan.
No longer was it a debate firmly on ideas, it was insidious sophistry.
Nothing ever plainly said anymore.
The normal people can’t see plainly who the nazis are bc they’ve all made their language politically correct to not sound any alarms.
They won’t say Jews, they’ll say “George Soros.” They won’t say trans people, they’ll say “drag queen strippers.” They won’t say gay people, they’ll say “groomers.” So when the left calls it out, we look insane.
And the dem party doesn’t help bc the Dem party is rife with corpo money corruption, so of course they jump on it to further purge the party of leftists who would refuse corpo money.
It’s an endless cycle that leads to abject fascism.
People forget but the nazis succeeded, in part, bc the centrist/moderate party attacked the leftists/communists as extreme, which is what primed the Germans to accept the Nazis takeover to “rid the government of anti-German behavior.” You see the same language with the right, “anti-american communists,” or “godless socialists.” The Dems accept this because they also, whether people want to admit it or not, have a common opponent with the fascists, the left.
Fifty years ago we were talking ERA, green energy then, public healthcare, again THE ERA A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
The Dems WERE left wing.
Now the Dems don’t even have a spine to legalize gay marriage nationwide.
They’re just trying to repeal a bill, in the final minutes before losing house, that they passed and signed into law almost thirty years ago that banned gay marriage.
Now the Dems are a disgrace to the term left wing.
Shameful.
Corporate money through and through, and STILL fucking fighting the left.
House minority leader Hakeem Jeffries is a centrist hack who takes corpo money.