Putin knows he's losing and if he accepts that loss, he'll be the one getting thrown out a window.
Any mercy he shows his people at this point is in the hope they show him mercy when that inevitably comes to pass.
He's a dead man walking.
Well I think he either loses or starts ww3 and we all lose.
I don't see a world in which he wins a war in ukraine, potentially other places he deems part of russia, and the world sits by to let him.
It's less about what the stats are, and more about what is inevitable.
The US is not slowing down its aid, and who knows what's coming of biden's kyiv trip.
China may or may not choose to back russia, and who knows how far "backing" will go, but it's easy to imagine a point where US and Chinese troops are active in eastern europe.
We're not going to dump billions into helping out ukraine and then go "ah well that didn't work out, let's go home".
Look, I'm sure people will think I'm a troll for posting this, but I really view it more as critical thinking.
I am still pro-ukraine in all of this, but Russia isn't losing.
People really need to accept that at some point.
Propaganda works both ways.
Are they living up to what they thought they would do, absolutely not.
Does it look great for them, absolutely not.
BUT: Russians fight wars differently than we do, and they have different values that we do.
And heavy losses doesn't equate to losing.
They have gained territory, Ukraine has lost territory.
They have lost a smaller percentage of their capable forces (active + reserve) than Ukraine.
People keep talking about them hitting civilian positions as a sign they are struggling, but they are fighting urban warfare against a mostly militia style fighters in urban areas.
The same reason they have lost more vehicles, Ukraine isn't really fighting with vehicles.
So what metric are people basing Russia is losing on?
Also, there is no reason for Russia to assume that Ukrainian allies will provide lethal aid indefinitely, and if that stops or slows down, it isn't going to be good for Ukraine.