In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“Investigating systematic racism in government is divisive because it’s never been determined that America has a problem with racism.”.
Tucker said “There is no systemic racism—whatever that is.” But I went to Robert E. Lee High School in Midland, Texas, which was named by the school board (school system) in 1961 in blatant opposition to desegregation.
Midland did not even exist when the Civil War ended!
I had to play “Dixie” on the trumpet during football games when the Confederate flag was raised.
Federal courts ordered bussing of African-American students.
The name of the school was a dead-giveaway, but the school board refused to change the name until after BLM protests woke up the students themselves to petition for a name change in 2020.
You shouldn't worry about their looks neither because they understand even less than you do on the subject.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The whole focus of most people was football.
I believe it is particularly perverse that as the whole city showed up for the high school football games on Friday nights, where the halftimes always included that Confederate flag paraded across the field.
I will not forget the looks on the faces of some of the African-American band mates who had to perform “Dixie.” Look away… Look away… Dixieland!”.
Then the Children and Grandchildren of those White Men gave those Enslaved People Rights & Freedom.
They're still Raping, Murdering & Enslaving Africans.
The only difference is that the White Man isn't buying anyone anymore.
Yeah, all they did was Buy some Slaves from the African Chieftains that Enslaved their own people for some Trinkits and Alcohol.
Then the Children and Grandchildren of those White Men gave them Rights and Freedoms that most people who live in Africa still don't have.
We do have the tendency to become the best at anything that we put our mind too.
But, I believe the Africans are the best at it because they're still doing it to their people after all these years and they don't look like they'll be stopping anytime soon.