In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Whereas Reality Winner didn't have any assistants to blame her actions on and was never the president, so no executive privilege.
Don't let any bullshitters tell you "these things take time" or "you have to build a perfect case" or "you can't arrest him yet because he has the right to a speedy trial".
The law is fast and effective...when it wants to be.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I agree and totally get what you're saying.
Unfortunately, part of the problem in Trump's case is that he has employees, underlings, and assistants, which means Trump can claim he had \no idea\ that his employees were granting each other untaxed bonuses or packing up classified documents.
He just signed the bonus checks that his accountant gave him!
The other thing is that since he was VERY UNFORTUNATELY the president, he can make these "executive privilege" claims.
All of these extra issues have to go through the court system at glacial speed before finally being decided.
was arrested with four days of the FBI finding out about her leak.
She was charged within nine days.
And sat in jail without bail for over a year until her sentencing.
It’s true.
Most laws are to control the working class.
I always felt that way but what opened my mind up more is when I was hanging out with this rich kid I met for a couple of months.
He had a flashy car and he was driving us into the city.
He parked illegally in a spot that said $250 fine.
I pointed the fine out and he just said, that’s how much it cost to get good parking and left his car there.
Most laws have massive fines attached to them and any law where a fine is associated is only there for the working class.
Any elite sees those fines as the cost of business, those fines are the equivalent of paying $5 for them.
It’s no sweat.