Russia has some pretty crazy drug issues.
Not only that but criminalizing sexuality just puts it underground where there's less opportunity for it to be done safely.
This has been going on a long time, nurses visiting 20 years ago from the states were appalled they refused to test for or or treat HIV, you could only have it recognized when you had AIDS.
For residency permits in the Gulf Cooperation Council, blood tests and X-rays are required upon renewal or request within the country.
The blood tests are used to diagnose and deport not just HIV/AIDS positives, but also to discriminate based on job title and an array of diseases such as Hepatitis, Syphilis.
For females above the age of 16 it also serves the purpose of finding pregnancy-related hormones or bio-indicators.
If those turn out positive & the woman isn't legally married, then she may be jailed and deported under archaic premarital sex legislation.
The X-ray is used to find tuberculosis scars, which may also lead to deportation or a chance at doing some regiment.
"Dont Say Gay" is actually an American anti LGBT law.
Russia claims the are "Anti LGBT Propaganda", to which I say, what LGBT propaganda?
Its really their synthetic, needle injected drug issue that causes HIV to spike, although im sure lack of access to birth control doesn't help.
Russia has a massive heroin problem, and in the last decade or so, a particularly scary variant of it has been sweeping through Russia, I'm not sure the chemical name but the street name is krokodil.
it's essentially a small amount or heroin (dicetylmorphine) cut with a bunch of chemichals to make it hit like a much larger dose of heroin.
Users will often shoot up a bottle of eye drops (yeah, eye drops) after injecting the drug to make it hit even harder.
The name krokodil comes from the scaly appearance of the skin of it's users.
The average life expectancy of a krokodil user is only 11 months.
In Russia, the issue is more that they just... didn't invest any money into their medical system/recovery programs, hell, they barely even tried to stop the smuggling of drugs.
The illegal market just ran wild on its own as opposed to being fueled by the legal one.
Why do people take this shit then, when heroin is still fairly accessible in a market like Russia (they share a landmass with Afghanistan where like 90% of the worlds opium comes from, so it should be just as easy to get heroin in Russia as America)?
Its cheaper.
Heroin addicts run out of money and get desperate.
Yeah, the USA has a policy issue where pharmaceutical companies have way too much power over the medical system, so a ton of opium gets imported.
However, since fentanyl is synthetic, its a similar issue to meth, it can be manufactured locally, even by users with relatively improvised setups.
Since you need so little fentanyl (mass wise) to lace so many doses, it's become a huge problem.