The Koh-i-Noor was taken from India under duress and given to Queen Victoria.
India (among many other nations) has asked for it back repeatedly, stating it was forcibly obtained by the British East India Co. and should be repatriated due to the fact it was mined in India and has a several hundred year history in S Asia.
There’s a famous 2010 quote from then Prime Minister David Cameron, addressing an Indian audience regarding the Diamond.
“If you say yes to one you suddenly find the British Museum would be empty.
I think I am afraid to say, to disappoint all your viewers, it is going to have to stay put.
".
This is a lot like a bigger kid taking a toy from a smaller lid on the playground.
Instead of playing with it or giving it back the big kid just refuses to give it back to the little one, just because they can.
Britain claims it is so ceremonially important as a part of the crown jewels it can’t be given back, yet here they are not even using it during the coronation due to the controversy.
This ties into the much larger issue of Britain refusing to taken loot stolen at gun point during their colonial expansion.
That’s one narrative, however, the Indian government has told its own Supreme Court that it was given to Britain, and not under “duress”:
“Kumar [India’s solicitor general] told told the supreme court on Monday: “It was given voluntarily by Ranjit Singh to the British as compensation for help in the Sikh wars.
The Koh-i-noor is not a stolen object.””.
Lol, that’s glossing over the part where Ranjit Singh’s son was actually the one who it was taken from, and he was only a boy.
Oh, and the fact Duleep Singh in later life stated he felt it was taken from him.
Also glosses over the fact that it's claimed that the only reason Singh's family even had the stone was they pressured Shah Shuja of the Durrani Empire (Afghanistan) to surrender the stone by torturing his son.
When both governments take the position that it was transferred lawfully and without duress, the rest is just noise, in my view.
But who cares what I think—-I never said that there was not a competing narrative, indeed, that was my very first observation.
In this case the Diamond in question is part of a long running debate on the British returning war loot.