What a shit-stain.
Forget brotherhood, there will be nothing hatred towards Russia from Ukranians for decades if not generarions, and it's entirely earned.
I've listened to a wonderful audiobook about Chernobyl, which provided A LOT of context about the entire federation before and after the disaster.
It showed how Ukrainian language, and especially literature, were discouraged and considered inferior during the decades leading to the facts.
Even at the plant, the nuclear engineers working INSIDE were Russians, whereas the less qualified workforce (firemen, builders who put up the structures, generic crew and so on) were Ukrainian.
High ranking party officials were Russians, and even the highest officials in Ukraine reported to them.
The Kremlin decided where the nuclear plants were to be installed, and incidentally, the ones in Russia were all in the middle of nowhere, whereas the ones in Ukraine were all relatively close to heavily populated cities.
So, the practice of advertising a certain inferiority of everything Ukrainian dates a long way back.
Chernobyl was the straw that broke the camel's back, and I suspect that to this day no one forgot what was below it.
It cemented the perception that Russia didn't give a fuck about the well being of Ukrainians, which was kind of confirmed by multiple facts.
First of which was holding the celebrations for the 1st of May in Kiev with hundreds of thousands of people outside while - unbeknown to everyone - radiations levels were above every safety margin, and the wind from Chernobyl blowing their direction.
An Ukrainian official who was forced to attend to show "everything was safe" reported that he came home with "radiation tan", to give you an idea of how fucking serious it was.
Obviously thousands of people complained about the same, he was just the most prominent figure to testify to that.
So Ukrainian are still, rightly, bitter because of all the injustices, while Russians still think that all the runaway republics rightly belong to them ,and that splitting up in 1991 was an act of treason.