Naturally.
As he needs to wait for new unauthorized settlements to be established first.
Once that has progressed enough, they get authorized.
Rinse and repeat.
There are plenty of unauthorized construction done all the time.
But usually the IDF comes tearing it down or disperses people before they can really make progress on anything.
Since Israel has its own bureaucracy and system of layers of regulation, it cannot react immediately to every action taken by settlers.
This creates a situation in which there are, at any time, unauthorized settlements existing somewhere (usually a few makeshift huts).
Due to recent terror attacks in which 9 Israelis were murdered over the course of less than a week, plus ongoing public criticism about lack of deterrence against terror attacks, the government decided to legalize 9 previously unauthorized settlements, symbolic of the 9 victims, in retaliation.
If you refer to several hundred thousand people over hundreds of cities and towns as settlers and settlements respectively, then that's also quite inaccurate.
Many of these "settlements" existed before Israel itself, some even for thousands of years.
The vast majority of the "settlers" are actually just residents of Jerusalem.
You could also say that the PA does nothing on their side to indicate they really want to build their own country peacefully alongside Israel.
This is why they still have no real state today, and that there is very little chance they will ever have a state.
The best outcome for them is to be absorbed by Jordan.
It's time to turn the page and move on.
Israel is not going away, the Palestinian people need to accept it.
I do agree with you on the first part.
Most of the settlements works against both Israel and Palestine interests.
In West Banks alone there are currently 100 to 200 settlements with roughly 450 thousands settlers.
None of them internationally recognized as belonging to Israel.
Only Israel claims this.
However 1 settlement for 1 life is just insane.
Given how that "rule" only applies to one side.
As I've mentioned in another post civilian losses are a lot higher among Palestine.
These are large.
Who can curb unsanctioned settlements?
The government.
How is the government formed?
Democratic elections (unless the current government actually cancels democracy, which is a real fear but that's a topic for another debate).
What policies do they instate?
The majority's will.
There's no question that Israel has rights to stay and live there.
The big issue is they never curbed unsantioned settlement.
The Palestinian people has several times agreed upon Israel's border rights, but Israelian settlers have kept pushing that border.
Israel's government has done little to stop this.
I have little sympathy for Hamas attack, nor Israel's counter-attacks.
Especially as both harm people not involve in disrupting assigned borders.
They aren't untapped.
In many cases Israel groups occupy infrastructure owned by Palestines.
Often by force at gun point.
That is about as truthful as saying that all policemen across the country are responsible for every single case of police violence.
So now that we clarified that public opinion shapes Israeli policy on settlements, we can get straight to the point - After over a hundred years of conflict, and after many peace deals with Arab states, the only ones who refuse to make peace with Israel are the Palestinians.
And with no prospects of peace, how exactly do you convince the Israeli people that these territories, full of economical opportunity, should remain untapped?
Also resources by jus de bellum aren't valid reason to annex from other sovereign countries.
It's breaking International laws constructed to maintain peace.
Palestina is sovereign, and recognized by 130 countries.
Though I was wrong calling it a country, as the correct term here is state.
So its sovereignity is impossible for you and me to dispute.
Soverignity is a big thing between nations.
Usually decide by the basic "how many agrees with me" and "how much trouble can others get in if they disagree".
That's.... really not how sovereignty is defined.
Sovereignty is one's authority and freedom to apply said authority within one's own territory.
Palestine isn't a state either.
Recognition is nothing.
There can be a state without recognition, and there can be a non-state with plenty of recognition.
Otherwise Taiwan wouldn't exist as a state.
Israel and settlemebts is one of them.
Oil countries with oil price manipulation is another.
Testing of new weapons system is a third.
Yes, Russia is stronger than Ukraina.
Yes, Israel is stronger than Palestina.
However there is an entity stronger then Russia and Israel.
It's the combined force of all countries disagreeing with them.
For example, Ukraine's claim on the Donbas and Crimea regions is widely accepted.
Russia's claim isn't.
Yet Russia is the sovereign in those areas, because it de facto applies its rule there, in both civilian and military affairs.
Palestine has population and government, but not territory.
To get territory, it must first accept a peace agreement with Israel, or accept an agreement with any other state willing to provide it with territory.
Palestine has never accepted an arrangement in the form of a peace treaty or anything of the sort, at any point of time.
So as long as it is neither a state, nor a sovereign over anything, the only thing that keeps it alive is others' good will - which won't exist forever.
It's the same reason we call sovereign citizens idiots.
Their claim is ONLY valid IF large enough International forces agrees with you.
And sovereignity IS entirely based on others good will.
Wild example, but: If the entire world decided that Belgum no longer exists, then Belgium doesn't exist.
The area formerly know as Belgium still has population, infrastructure and military.
However.
Unless that outmatches all other countries, then Belgium no longer exists.
Israel could even claim the entire West Banks belong to them, but unless there are more forces agreeing than disagreeing it's simply not true.
Most countries recognize Israel, but a lot of their settlements are outside international recognized borders.
Basically Israel is called out for the same thing as China.
Claiming land other sovereign nations has international recognized claim on.
The Oslo accords were rejected by Arafat a short time after they signed it.
You are delusional.
The Palestinians today, for the majority, are even more radical than Arafat himself, and don't accept even Area C as Israeli, nor Haïfa, nor the majority of Israeli cities.
Maybe you should pay attention to what they say.
Unfortunately your view is not what the rest of the world recognize.
Including among Israelian and Palistinians.
Nor among Christians, Jews, Muslims, and Armenians.
You're very much among a very small and isolated group.
And we can all drop name calling groups.
That's for people whom actually want the conflict and devestation to continue.
Bro it's a wikipedia page link what you mean instead of sending me on errands.
Palestinians have never agreed to present time borders.
Sometimes in some deal they'll mention 1967 or some shit but that's worthless because it's not a possibility.
because it's 50 years ago and times have changed.
athe time for 1967 borders was 1967.
Now we have 2023 borders.
I'm not saying we shouldn't ever change borders but going back 50 years is unrealistic and unreasonable.
Besides in 1967 they rejected it because they thought they'll get all the land, an idea you will find very much alive in the minds of Palestinians today.
Only authorized 1 settlement for each Jew that died in terrorist attacks this year.
I think this is a good system, you kill you lose, it was always that way but it seems the lesson needs to be clearer.
Sure, but they loose claim for every civilian Palestine lost in Israel retribution attacks.
Trust me Palestinian civilian losses are higher than Israelian civilian losses.
They really don't because there is no obligation to make everything fair and square and stop killing terrorists because not enough of us have died.
Collateral damage sucks, and Pal losses are higher its true.
Something they have to accept, the burden of weakness.
But that's not true.
There will definitely be more settlements as that is the strategy to pay back terror attacks, and you can be sure they won't stop soon.