It's true that Russia has conquered a decent amount of territory in recent weeks.
When I say decent I mean compared to the performance in almost a year of war.
If I'm not mistaken most of these advances have been made by Wagner and not the Russian army.
It seems that in the Kremlin they only know to fight as if we were still in 1914.
Their strategy consists almost literally of headbutting the Ukrainian defensive lines, hoping that they will break before they run out of cannon fodder.
The second largest military power in the world does not know how to fight a modern war and instead resorts to archaic tactics, propaganda, empty threats, fake news and inhumane treatment of its own troops in order to force them to fight.
A good part of the Russian professional soldiers are dead, what's left is draftees and Wagner's mercs.
Russia maintains numerical superiority but with each passing day Ukraine has better trained troops and better weapons.
One might wonder if the point of no return has been reached in this war.
For better or worse the Russians managed to gain initiative.
Right now they decide where the battles take place.
Compare that with last autumn when Ukraine were able to punch through Russian lines.
Hi john217.
Your submission from reuters.com is behind a registration wall.
A registration wall limits the number of free articles users can access before they are required to register an account to log in to continue reading it.
While your submission was not removed, users are discouraged from upvoting it or commenting on it.
Even if they have the initiative I doubt they have enough fuel to achieve any noteworthy results.
The Russian strategy has been the biggest enemy of Russia itself.
They bleed themselves out for every street and every house, every meter of land gained is worth it even if more than half of the troops participating in the assault die.
Like 10-15k actual RAF troops are dead, a good third of casualties come from LPR and DPR militiamen(which are the least competent and probably who you’ll hear failing the most with the shittiest equipment) and another chunk are Wagner PMC.
Of the 20-30k KIA on the Russian side I can only imagine about half or two thirds being actual RAF.