wow .. so they are not happy just murdering iranian girls and protestors, and now they want to murder foreign journalists too?
I point you to the bastard Saudis who will point you to the bellend Taliban who in turn will point you to octocunt IS who in turn will point you to a potato which, for them, is this week's evil thing that they just made up which means they have to enslave or kill girls in order to protect them from it.
While, yes I agree, I think the point the other commenter was making is more along the lines of: they claim to be religious but they don’t even properly follow the claimed religion by the sheer fact of their oppression and use of violence.
It’s like saying Stalin was not a communist; while true, he did use that image to enforce his totalitarian dictatorship, much like Khameini today, and Khomeini before him, with Shia Islam.
I get you but using one quote from one religion doesn’t prove the point against a tonne of the heinous stuff in lots of religious texts that people follow as fact.
If “religion calls for oppression and violence” is true then no individual religion can not be doing so.
Thus my point is correct.
I can find a myriad of similar lines in the Torah, Quran, etc.
Just because assholes use religious texts to enforce negative consequences on others does not mean those same texts condone that action.
The Abrahamic faiths are all very specific in that God shall be the final judge and punisher not the men with, nor the society in, which we live.
I get calling out assholes abusing power and oppressing based off of archaic social norms that stabilized ancient society which are no longer relevant today.
But trashing on the billions of people who just wish to have their beliefs is fairly unjustified and dishonest considering many just as and more heinous actions have been justified with logic, reason, science, and any other belief structure a person can follow.
It’s absolutely fair game to be critical of these beliefs, ESPECIALLY if they’re being used and espoused to further political goals and suppress peoples rights.
Criticism of religion and criticism of horrid stuff committed by irreligious groups aren’t mutually exclusive.