In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The FBI visited Mar-a-Lago in cargo pants and polos and Trump still called it a “raid” to get the MAGA base up and frothing.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Some MAGA hats would fight and die but I'm thinking maybe 5%-6% of them.
The rest will bring guns, leave when it gets real, die just by inexperience, or start blasting and get shot quick my military/police forces.
It will be a dark day in America but in the end?
Trump will rally 100-300 people and they all leave by halftime.
5% to 6% of the Trump base vs 100-300 people is a massive difference.
One would still mean a vast amount of people capable of causing enormous damage (He still has about 20% of the country as his "core base" - 5% of that would be 3.2 million men) - the other would be a large crowd still capable of a riot yet small enough to be only a police-level threat.
I sincerely hope you are right, but I really doubt it if Trump decides to launch another insurrection - especially in a scenario where he has less to lose than he did on January 6th.
I still would not underestimate him.
He has a lot of fanatics, several militias under his control and a considerable capability to cause damage.
Once he feels he has nothing else to lose, he will lash out and so will they.
My worry is that his supporters will be more violent this time, given the stakes will be higher than him.
Though any second coup attempt is doomed to fail, something akin to the Kazakhstan "Bloody January" insurrection of 2022 is definitely on the cards.
However, it does take quite a bit of legal work to send in the actual military into US territory, so I think he would not resort to that unless things got extremely bad.
The National Guard would be easier to send.
However, if the local police decides to just "disengage" from fighting this new insurrection due to pro-Trump loyalties, the insurrectionists could do some serious damage before the National Guard arrives.
Also, if they are adamant about using guns (As in, if they take Marjorie Taylor Greene's claim here as an order to be carried out during a new attack: ), then the time the National Guards arrive will be the bloodiest part of the insurrection.
Its definitely not 80,000,000 (Trump didn't even get that many votes ), but I am almost completely sure that Trump would be able to rally a few thousand people to fight for him.
A sizable threat, able of creating some of the darkest days of US history, yet still something the US government will defeat within hours/days.
Hell, at least the last time he tried to claim he wanted them to be peaceful.
That's been seemingly dropped now - he just reposted a call by one of his supporters on Truth Social that "they will have to figure out how to fight 80,000,000+"..."People my age and old will physically fight for him this time.
What we got to lose?
I'll donate my time here on this planet to do it"....."we are locked and loaded".
It seems like a clear conditional incitement and endorsement of violence on Trump's part.
I don't think it will just be Atlanta if it is his indictment.
He will throw everything he's got if he gets indictment.
He did January 6th over much less.
I'd be surprised if they don't come armed this time.
After all, Marjorie Taylor Green herself did claim that she would have had the January 6 rioters bring guns if they were under her watch - it seems like Trump's fanatics have decided that the only thing wrong with January 6th was the weak tactics.
Like another commenter here said, many police officers throughout the US are themselves loyal to Donald Trump (several January 6th insurrectionists were policemen themselves).
My fear is that they won't need orders to refuse to engage this second wave of insurrectionists, or even join them.
Looking at the various conservative/alt right American forums - it seems like none of them batted an eye when he did not protect the first insurrectionists.
If anything they are still adamant about their pro-Trump rhetoric and willingness to fight for him.
He still has a vast pool of idiots to pull from.
But once they start shooting, it will be more about how to quickly neutralize them/stop the active fighting rather than how to legally arrest them.
I'm not talking about the people who were insurrectionists on January 6th, but the various alt right groups online who have similar rhetoric to them (Yet did not join the first time).
Such as a large portion of forums like Truth Social.
Those people seemingly do not care about the first insurrectionists, and are adamant to follow their footsteps.