Politicians here in Trinidad and Tobago are known to be extremely corrupt as well.... he is widely considered to be one of the worst among them.
... also, our politicians once saw it fit to make him the minister of National Security around the time his two sons were being charged in the US for fraud.
Long story short he used his political powers from fifa to take personal bribes for votes on the world cup destinations.
He ate at FIFA's top-table in the corruption league.
His name always came up every cycle, and yet FIFA did nothing about it.
Football simply didn't have the hold in America, so Loreta Lynch comes along and basically says who the fuck do you think you are, you're only a sports administrative body, not some sort of super-state, and she began arresting them.
It was only when the Americans got involved and basically did what European governments were too frightened to do, that it started to collapse.
Just watched the new Netflix documentary about FIFA and this dude was quite a huge part of the corruption and how FIFA leadership ended up getting busted by the US.
I always knew FIFA was bad, but I had no idea how insane some of the bribes they received were and the shit they pulled.
One anecdote about Jack Warner from the documentary I'll mention is that when they went to arrest Jack's two sons (they were laundering money for their dad) at their apartment, Jack was present.
However, he couldn't be arrested as he was a public official and laws in Trinidad and Tobago prevent public officials from being arrested/extradited.
Law enforcement said to him he could save them if he just gave himself up willingly.
He just told his son's he hopes they get good lawyers and let the police take them away.
How true all of that story is is questionable to me, but after seeing the level of corruption these guys were a part of I wouldn't put it past him.
I have no idea but the only thing he ever had to offer was money and with his main source of income dried up, he's been living relatively quietly for the past few years.
I'm sure he has a construction contracting company though, that's the preferred method of corruption here.