I think you are gonna have a hard time convincing Ukraine to use diplomacy when a 1/4 of the country is still occupied by Russia and there infrastructure has been destroyed.
Depends on the deal, whether its appeasement or negotiated surrender.
If Russia fo of all of Ukraine, Ukraine joins NATO, then that’s not a bad deal.
Then if Russia wants another shot at Ukraine in 10 years they’ll have to start WWIII to get it.
And there is the problem.
The Russians still think that they are stronger and Ukrainian should give them what they want.
They are still not about to give the Ukrainians a bad deal, let alone a reasonable one.
I have yet to see any sign that the Russians are willing to negotiate for anything less than getting what they want.
Added to that, by formally annexing parts of Ukrainian, Putin has made it very difficult for himself to negotiate giving it back.
Watched a video of people in Moscow... these people are just plain arrogant.
Half of them laughed at the idea of Russia losing a war.
"When hs Russia ever lost a war?"
one guy said.
They do NOT know their own history.
The Russian people are programmed.
It is ESSENTIAL for the west to not just beat Russia but to humiliate them.
The people need to understand that their media are liars.
And they need to understand that trusting imperial Tsars is stupid.
Particularly when you rank 185th in per capita GDP and have an economy smaller than Canada.
Bottom line: The Russian PEOPLE need to be taught a lesson just like we schooled the Germans and Japanese.
They need to burn it into their cultural psyche that they do NOT have an imperial destiny and that the new world order is real and permanent.
All children must follow rules.
Even chimps with machine guns can learn this.
I agree this is a key problem.
But the UA is making is harder and harder to deny reality.
RU is getting its ass kicked.
There are signs the rock wall is starting to shift.
Maybe it will start to fall apart in a few months...
Unfortunately, the problem is not just Putin.
There are plenty of other Russians just as bad.
The issue becomes how fo you get the Russians to change enough ot be acceptable members or Europe?
Unfortunately, the problem is not just Putin.
There are plenty of other Russians just as bad.
The issue becomes how fo you get the Russians to change enough ot be acceptable members or Europe?
This war has been planned by the KGB since the USSR folded.
Russia pretended to be our friends and used the economy the USA built for them to rebuild their expeditionary army.
Any end to the war now will be a victory for Putin, embolden China and that will start WW3.