To expand on some of the other answers here, the Russians use Latin Characters (So A, B, C, etc., like our English alphabet) to designate their various taskforces.
(US Armed Forces do similar things with Greek characters Alpha Squad, Delta Force etc.)
(edit: As pointed out in further comments, the naming is a little more complicated than I was originally led to believe.
The simple version is there isn't a 100% for sure reason Z was used but it may stand for "zapad", West in Russian.
So the Western Taskforce.)
The taskforce for the "wargame" that was being run in late '21 and was the initial push during the invasion was the Z taskforce.
So as mentioned elsewhere, all the armored vehicles had large Z's painted on them and the letter ended up being a coopted into Russian propaganda about the invasion.
So the flip of that is when people are talking about Russia in general, but particular pro-invasion, pro-Putin Russians, they sub in the zz's as an insult/distinction.
Probably they used these characters just to be able to tell the difference between Russian and Ukranian vehicles and now our propaganda is kind of just stuck with it.
Why those characters though?
Many news outlets were speculating that Z stands for "zapad" (West) and V for "vostok" (East) and it's in Latin because З and В written in Russian are too similar.
But the O character is out of the line here and vehicles with Z signs actually were all over the place.
For me it seems like it was some kind of abbreviation initially (like "Zapadnyi Voennyi Okrug" -- Western Military District, "ZOV" -- the call, "ZVO" -- the eVil or Zelensky Volodymir Oleksandrovych), but later on they've dropped this idea.
From what I've heard, It seems like old women, really old men, edgy teenagers and dysfunctional adults are the main supporters, but it's not like they want to DO anything, they are watching it like "Game of Thrones" or something.
But I can't tell for sure if that's true and how many of them are there.
Thanks for the clarification.
I was going on info from western media sources at the beginning of the invasion.
Looking it up now gets you a whole lot of conflicting info.
I've seen maybe ten T-shirts, cars or backpacks with this Z symbol.
The men who were wearing it all looked like off-duty cops.
I live in Moscow and since February I've met exactly TWO guys who were supporting the [thing].
One guy was a taxi driver who was into some elaborate Nazi NATO anti-Slavic conspiracy.
The second one was a pro-monarchistic lawyer who said that now we have no choice but to win this and "the West" will forgive us instantly if we manage to capture Kiev.
And don't forget we've got a ton of autogenerated pro-[thing] comments on Russian social media and some crazy censorship.
That makes it even harder to tell who supports what.
Also there was one huge Z billboard near one of the central subway stations.
We've got more of "Military is a very manly and respected job" posters now though, but it's nowhere close to Crimean days propaganda.
In 2014 the "CRIMEA IS OURS" and "Respect mah nuclear warheads" posters were everywhere.