I think you're the exception by taking two wildly different sources and then act like these numbers are already set in stone, especially when estimates are incredibly varied from source to source due to the fog of war.
The 8000 civilians for example are a stat that does not include wounded people, but the military casualties are an estimate from Norway's Defence that does include the wounded again.
Apples to oranges.
Mind bogglingly short sighted and out of touch.
The US wouldn’t need to draft.
The someone tried to wax poetic about the Vietnam draft.
Just wholly off base.
Happened in the US less than a lifetime ago.
There were widespread protests against it, but in the end 2 million were drafted for Vietnam and the war lasted for years.
Another useful bit of information is if your country is being invaded and you intend to stay, it’s safer to join the military than it would be to be a civilian.
If the US was actively involved in Ukraine, are you saying we would have soldiers in foxholes and/or CQC galore?
So, in the GWOT, you were facing decentralized command and guerrilla warfare.
Now you would be facing an untrained mass of bodies with antiquated weapons and equipment.
Yet, you stick by the worry about Vietnam level of drafting, yet that wasn’t even employed in 20yrs of GWOT.
Yeah, I’m not trying to nitpick, but the original fear post was all about how “refusing to fight” would send a message to keep the US out of a global war.
I'm responding only to this.
The US is not a dictator state and despite many people protesting and refusing to fight, millions were drafted.
Well, considering the original comment stated that Vietnam is the proof that everyone will be drafted, I threw out a few easy examples of why reaching back to the early’s 1970’s is a silly reference to make.
However you said that "only" non-dictator states can press people into service which isn't true.
You're the only one who made an absolute statement here, and Vietnam is proof that your statement is false.
I'm not sure what you're getting at with those 3 points?
The US now has a professional army and has been involved in wars where they had overwhelming superiority, mostly due to technology, and so there was no need for a draft.
If it wasn't for that, at best it's uncertain whether the US would resort to a draft to fight its wars.
Are you in a different conversation?
No one here said that Vietnam is proof that everyone will be drafted.
I wouldn’t say you don’t have to go… you can try dodge the draft but any competent government would put you on a list and not allow you to leave the country legally.