In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I'm sorry, but it's all purely political theatre if Joe were to show up there, and I find it incredibly silly that it's even an expectation and people actually criticize him for being somewhere else.
Like "boo hoo I can't believe he abandoned us instead of swooping in to rescue us with nice words, and do the exact same thing here to find a solution that he could do from the Whitehouse".
Showing up there for the sake of appearances and speeches, is exactly as effective as thoughts and prayers.
If I lived in a town that experienced a disaster like this, I wouldn't care that politicians didn't come to grandstand, and would consider the few hours of trave,l time better spent on actually fixing the issues.
Sure That town needs help, but would the air and water suddenly clear up because Biden showed up?
Would Biden make the actual train crime scene investigation go any faster?
Would he show up in a U-Haul and just move everyone to a safer town?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Ok I have an honest question.
Do people actually feel like a physical visit from presidents and politicians actually makes any difference in the situation?
People are actually upset because they don't feel supported?
You can't tell me that Joe Biden actually being physically present in Palestine Ohio will get results any faster or slower.
They are milking this as much as they can but ultimately it won't matter because the people angry at Biden would.never have voted for him in the first place.
That is the reason they are in this mess, they hate regulation... Something Democrats often impose on large businesses.
Now they blame Biden for the lack of regulation, even though they push back on any new regulations every time they are remotely suggested.