This is just a regurgitation of an interview with Evening Moscow, a blatant Russian propaganda attempt.
>"Until the very last moment I hoped that Miss Russia would come up to me and say sorry, but she only came up to me to get a selfie for what I think were propaganda purposes," Apanesenko told the Daily Beast.
"Miss Russia did not say a word about the war.
People told me it would be dangerous for her.
".
it's besides the point anyway.
a gesture of solidarity would be nice, but an expectation of an apology is uncalled for.
wouldn't it be really awkward if you were in an international competition and someone came up and apologized to you because your countries are at war, idk.
edit: to clarify, I think a display of solidarity would have been a great gesture, and I think it's fucked up if Miss Russia is using the seemingly innocuous selfies to push some propaganda back home, just saying that expecting an apology from someone who's ostensibly your coworker for their government's actions that they had nothing to do with is ridiculous.
idk man, it's weird, I don't expect American or British athletes to fall over themselves going around apologizing to everyone from a country their country has fucked with, it would take ages for one thing.
UK is still occupying part of Ireland, continues to sit on stolen African wealth, and how many countries is the USA actively bombing?
y'all are grasping at air trying to defend this Russian propaganda actor because Miss Ukraine said she didn't even show show sympathy before trying to take a selfie with her.
doesn't say a word about oh, idk THE WAR THEIR COUNTRY IS WAGING, let's just ignore that and take selfies together definitely not for propaganda!
I don't think it's necessary to present Russia in a better or kinder light, and it certainly wouldn't be that woman's responsibility.
it's a beauty pageant.
I think you have never been outside the states.
The world is big, and places are different.
Not everywhere has the same standards of free will like the west.
Things are done differently in Russia and the state most definitely controls things like this, that represent the state.
she helps represent a brutal authoritarian regime that is directly involved in helping sponsor her and benefits from social capital she gets on the world stage.
she then participates with Russian media, which has outright links with their government and is used for propaganda purposes.
"How dare your president attack my country?
Why didn't you tell him no?"
Lmmfao.
Christ.
I could see offering condolences or expressing shame in her home countries actions.
But how tf do you figure she owes someone an apology??
?
saying sorry can both be said in a "I'm sorry I did that" way and a "I'm sorry that happened to you" way.
Yes it is.
But she certainly doesn't owe it to anyone.
Most of us can't control our countries actions.
Refusal to abandon our homes because we don't agree with the actions of the government isn't wrong either.
Y'all are ass hats.
Correct.
What country are you from?
Guarantee nobody here claiming she should do that has ever personally apologized to anyone whose nation has been the target of attack from their own.
I know because everyone around me has such disdain for ordinary Russian citizens yet here in the west we let war go on in the middle east for how long?
these independent studies showing mass Russian support for their genocidal war is them being oppressed!