In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Time for one of those interfaith coalitions to file a class action suit over Establishment Clause violations.
I'm sure there are some Jews, Muslims, and other non-Christians in OKC who would not appreciate their tax dollars going towards this.
Sadly, this is more than likely going to happen here.
Republicans last year filed a bill to ban teaching anything that "violates a student's religious beliefs", and they all but want creationism only taught in schools.
If you are going to pick a state where the Scopes Monkey Trial is destined to happen next, Oklahoma's the favorite.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Here's the endgame for school choice.
Now, religious schools are undermining separation of church and state, taking public tax dollars to discriminate against secular students.
The Stitt-show is destroying our state all the way!
Stitt and Walters want to make the state into a theocracy and a fascist state, and it is despicable.
I believe ID just passed a law that puts school tax dollars with the child and not with the school district in which the child lives.
so if they go to a segregationist school that religious school gets all the tax money for that student and the public schools get nothing.
All part of the endgame to bring back white nationalist education.
This is the ruse they use to basically bring forth segregation academies on taxpayer dollar.
exactly while killing the teacher's union.
it's a really shitty twofer from some very shitty people.
i went to a episcopalian school and all of the teachers for 7th grade and under were people with no real qualifications who worked there to get a free education for their own kids.
if a kid is taught nothing but rote memorization for the first 8 years of their lives it's pretty hard to get them doing any critical thinking later.
in a lot of ways its barely a step removed from a madrasa where all you do is memorize religious texts.