This whole war, Russia has consistently failed at reacting tactically to intelligence... or even to manifest reality.
"This changes nothing" is the Russian motto.
For example, within 48 hours, Russia knew that the northern battleplans were bust.
The VDV was facing artillery in hostomel.
The runway was destroyed.
They did not have the weapons or numbers to attack artillery positions, and were not trying.
Transport planes would not be landing en mass.
That was a fact.
Yet, the Kyiv convoy just hung out, waiting for something everyone knew was not happening.
Waiting.
Taking losses.
Not adapting.
When they did finally maneuver, they assumed BTG formations.
The BTG formation is designed to move fast, take initiative, fight enemy armour and handle urban combat zones.
They assumed these formations to hold fixed position against infantry in forests...
The only thing Ukraine had at this point was motivated, but undertrained light infantry.
Very light.
Russians assumed the only formation capable of losing those exact assets to that exact force.
Why?
Because reality<plans.
Exactly.
During the Great Wrath (1713-1721) Russia killed, tortured and took as slaves a significant portion of the Finnish population.
Talking about tens of thousands of victims in a population of 300 000 - 400 000 people.
Can't choose your neighbours I guess.
Russia has always been a cunt.
Russia have had prior notice of every major arms delivery.
When HIMARs and ER artillery arrived, they were still "surprised."
Holding unholdable positions like snake island.
I've seen pallets in one of the warehouse Ukrainians captured.
They just don't seem to bother much anymore.
Right now, Russia is being complacent about GLSDB.
They are waiting patiently again for Ukraine to slowly start blowing up ammo dumps, CCs and muster sites.
It'll take about 100 high casualty, tactical catastrophes before someone has the balls to suggest that this does, in fact, change something.
Russia's entire artillery MO was based on 15km artillery range.
When HIMARS came, they changed nothing.
They just patiently waited for Ukraine to blow up all their ammo dumps over a month before rethinking this system.