India has 5 major states who largest sources of GDP is oil refining and especially high speed diesel which is exported world wide and currently in major shortfall all across the global spiking prices.
We refine oil not only for Russia but also war torn nations like Iraq and Syria whose population depends on the income of this natural resources.
We subsidies and sell refined oil to bankrupt nations like Sri-Lanka and Myanmar while helping near bankrupt nations like Bangladesh and Nepal too.
Its not just our sovereign nation but those many other forgotten nation who combined population is greater than Europe with a per capital GDP lower than 5K.
The world should simply turn a blind eye to this trade deal like it has done to many other atrocities and crisis on this side of the world.
This crisis too shall pass.
Please explain how the unwitting actions of a private company apply to the stance of a government.
I would also be interested in just what measures you would take to plug the mentioned loophole in how the entire world refines oil to avoid this unwitting and small amount (as stated in your article) of gas to US customers.
Not sure what to address first, the fact that you quote Business Insider and claim it’s “real world” or the fact that you either didn’t read, or didn’t understand the article itself.
That’s directly from your article that focuses more on private companies/consumers unintentionally purchasing oil AFTER it has been refined.
It even mentions that in the FIRST summary bullet point beneath the headline.
It’s more of a comment on the U.S. refining process than our stance on Russian oil.
Or, you can just read the article.
Since it come’s nowhere close to proving the US continues to purchase Russian oil.
The idea that this is a defensible tactic to establish regional hegemony as a bulwark against US dominance holds no water.
Where did you get this idea that India is against US dominance?
How do you derive at that when there are multiple collaborations with US as well?
And if you thought international statesmanship had "shame" involved, there is plenty of shameful behaviour for everyone to share the blame for/on.