Your right.
It’s absolute crazy how they committed fraud and stole peoples funds by transferring it to their personal slush fund for their hedge fund to trade with.
This definitely won’t be the last a scandal with crypto being used instead of USD.
Maybe the CFPB, CFTC or the SEC should do their jobs 🤷‍♂️.
you don’t have to trust defi at face value, you just look at the code and decide if it’s safe or worth it.
With ftx, he was just lying to everyone and even if you didn’t believe him, there wasn’t very easy ways to verify that they aren’t deceiving you because the government won’t regulate it properly.
How many of y’all before even downvoting or commenting actually know what a centralized exchange or decentralized exchange is, what a self custodial wallet is and what a defi app is?
If you don’t have any idea you probably shouldn’t make any input into the ftx crypto meltdown.
Too many people call crypto “rotten” and can’t tell the difference between an exchanges products and derivatives vs what a defi app is and how security is enforced by the protocol.
Lol, these are collapsing because crypto itself is rotten to the core, it's not just a coincidence crypto is being used.
This will become a lot more common now that the house of cards is starting to fall - Tether being the rug underneath said house of cards.
They created a token of which it’s value was correlated to the exchanges performance and to allow its users to gain perks in said exchange with obviously a few other flaws being in how they went about it.
Ultimately the way they designed their exchange was the failure here.
This all was off chain that the fraud is initiated via trust in ftx and sbf by everyone.
See the thing that I don’t understand from people who keep calling it “rotten” and what not is that they are calling faults on crypto that regular market deals in all the time.
NOTHING ACTUALLY WENT WRONG WITH CRYPTO TO CAUSE FTX TO FAIL.
WE AS A WHOLE TRUSTED THIS DUDE WITHOUT CHECKING HE WASN’T A TOTAL FRAUD.
Take note of Enron?
Or Madoff.
This was pretty much skimming or blatant misrepresentation of holdings that they committed while they ran away with the funds.
Your opinion on wether it truly equals the current monetary value or if it should have ANY value isn’t the point nor has any relation to the ftx collapse.