In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The problem isn't that Democrats aren't doing enough, the problem is that Republicans don't see trans people as humans.
What is the legislative minority supposed to do?
This isn’t happening in states where Democrats have authority to prevent it.
In these red states, Democrats can make floor speeches or hostilely question the supporting witnesses, but they can’t stop a hearing from happening or a bill from passing.
Living in one of the redder states, this is depressingly accurate.
I've probably spoken to and gotten responses from most Democrat legislators, they're not on board with this.
I see them raise objections, concerns, speak eloquently, write op-eds, and just generally empathize.
There hasn't been any break on the line, which is extremely appreciated.
Dems aren't voting for any of this in any number.
They're not showing their usual cowardice/"let's just find common ground".
They know what comes after 20 years of a moral panic like this.
As long as the GOP doesn't succeed in burning our history and killing most of us off, which is is very likely they won't, then this panic will end, and those looking back at this era will only see the ones that broke right as bigots and nutjobs.
I mean, don't get me wrong... We're about to experience an attempt at a genocide.
Things will get worse than they are now.
They will do a lot of damage.
The most likely thing is to slowly continue to slip into oligarchy.
Which... For trans people, it really isn't that bad... At least, compared to everyone else.
We'd just get shafted as bad as everyone else in that case, which is a step up.
Though depending on what particular little fief you end up in, things could be bad.
But I don't believe they've got the balls or the time or the ability or the luck or the competence necessary to do the things they'd need to do to make it a successful genocide, no matter how much bile and intent they put out.
Like, it's very easy to make the comparisons to Nazi Germany, but Nazi Germany had something that modern transphobes don't: a mostly youth movement.
Their movement is anethema to the young.
I'm not saying that there isn't movement radicalized young folks, I'm saying that the primary movers and shakers, the base of the current conservative movement, is much, much older than any successful fascist movement has ever been.
Also generally more wealthy, even amongst their rank and file.
Kyle Rittenhouse and the Club Q shooter and Elliott Rodgers were all comfy middle class kids.
At the end of the day, the material concerns and incentives just don't make sense for the type of sweeping violence necessary for such a thing; only individual shooting events a bunch of times.
The Nazis were primarily driven, as most radical right wing movements are, by disaffected young lower-middle class and poor men, some of which were veterans of World War I.
We're talking 20 and 30 year olds making up most of the movement, not 50 and 60 year olds like the Republicans now.
Our country's demographics and political leanings are more primed for a violent communist revolution than a violent fascist one; granted, neither is very likely.
That number would drop if Democratic state legislators started using it regularly.
Republicans would eliminate it.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
It's actually not ALEC this time.
I can't recall the name, but it's basically a clone of ALEC focused on open Christian Nationalism.
ALEC is usually focused on economic stuff, as the billionaires that back them are more about being billionaires and perpetuating that than being pious Christians that are only billionaires to try and spread Christianity.
I'm sure they're probably sharing resources, but the other one is leading the charge.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Been hearing that for the last 40 years, not really willing to bank our future health and safety on the vague hope that one day, hateful ideologies will die.