The worst people ever are running with this saying it wasn’t Russian… most of these missiles come from Belarus.
The territory of Belarus is occupied by Russia and the response should be at Putler puppet and russia itself.
It’s more in my opinion a this didn’t come directly from Russia so therefore no drastic measures will be taken (I don’t agree with that but that’s what I believe the ambiguous statement is).
There are many more ways to respond to this, that don’t involve article V, such as finally sending Ukraine ATACMS or modern tanks (still yet to be delivered by US and of course all help is appreciated but more can be done).
It really doesn't matter much whether it came from Russia, or Belarus, or from Russian positions inside of Ukraine.
The point is, this at worst was likely a misfire, or accident whether it was Ukrainian SU-300, or Russian Missile.
And it's very likely this was just Ukrainian SU-300 misfiring.
People who have their mind made up already are showing their bias, and inability to see the world as it happens.
They are making up their minds with no evidence, and even when evidence contrary to their view comes to light, they STILL claim it was definitely Russia, because that is what they WANT it to be, not what the evidence says it most likely is.
If this was just a Russian missile that misfired, NATO likely would have said so by now.
They have the trajectory info.
If it was that simple, it could likely be figured out in a few minutes.
1.)
A Ukrainian SU-300(SAM), made by Russia, that misfired(which we've already seen this war, where Russian operated SU-300 hit people inside of Russia by accident).
The coordinates of the impact show that it could honestly just be an error in entering the gps coordinates of the attack, as it mixed up the longitude of the Lyiv target and Kyiv.
As it has the longitude of Lyiv and the Latitude of Kyiv... or is it the other way round.
The 2nd missile could have been air defense chasing it.
2.)
A Russian missile that got shot off course by Ukrainian AA, and either pieces, or most of the missile landed in Poland.
Polish President I believe said it was probably made in Russia.
SU-300 is made in Russia.
Biden and Polish President said it probably didn't come from Russia.
And they didn't seem to clarify in differentiating between Russian and "Russian Army", which leads me to believe they aren't at all sure it came from the Russian Army even(otherwise, I think that would have been an obvious distinction they would have made).
Various western mouthpieces, they haven't said it was Russia, despite having the missile trajectories(according to NATO).
And we know it was specifically likely PRODUCED in Russia(which SU-300 is).
And Ukraine had SU-300 operating within range of the area that got hit.
And we know SU-300 do this kind of thing.
It all sort of leads to it being a Ukranian misfire of a SU-300.
Or a Ukranian AA hitting a Russian missile and knocking it off course.
Lyiv was under attack by Russian missiles.
SU300 Range is 150km.
The place that was hit was about 75km from Lyiv.
SU300 are known to do this.
Ukraine would have been the only nation with SU300 close enough to have hit that spot.
If it was as simple as a Russian Missile directly going to poland, as NATO has said, they have the trajectories, and that would be easy to come out and say hours ago.
So we are left with 2 likely scenarios.
1.)
Ukrainian SU-300, Russian Made, which fits with everything everyone has said so far.
This would explain why Biden said it likely didn't come from Russia.
Why the Polish president said it was likely PRODUCED by Russia, but didn't accuse Russia of firing it at all.