In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I realize you’re being sarcastic but when Biden was trashing on trump for being irresponsible did he realize he did the same thing (illegally mishandling classified material) or did he forget?
he’s either a liar or the old man can’t remember what’s in his garage and other offices.
trump had them in a locked closet in a house guarded by the secret service.
Biden left them in a garage in a house that Hunter also lived in.
one is a sad man hoarding letters from “little rocket man”.
the other is gross negligence.
they are both guilty of mishandling classified information.
both should be in jail.
There is no 'both sides' here.
Trump purposely hoarded classified documents & refused to return them.
Biden & Pence did not.
Was listening to the latest episode of NPR’s .
They interviewed a Yale professor who had the highest security clearance when she worked for the US Government.
She said that staffers often mistake certain documents including them in the stack of paperwork sent to the former officials home, which most likely happened with Biden and Pence.
Besides, they proactively cooperated with authorities and informed them of the documents.
Trump on the other hand had over 300 documents of which the National Archives and other authorities have been requesting for some time yet refused to give up.
No attempt at introducing nuance here as some have ignorantly and foolishly already claimed in this thread.
Facts are facts.
Biden and Pence weren’t willingly attempting to break the law, Trump was.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.