The global water currents and then air currents (jet stream) break down, and weather patterns stagnate (heat dome in the PNW was an example of a brief, stagnant system) and the cool artic air usually trapped up north by the jet stream will be free to cover north America.
Hotter, drier summers; stormier, wetter falls/springs; colder winters.
Eventually the seasons will become more predictable, but I don't know how long that would take...
Then I saw this video by Sabine Hossenfelder on how the green house gases actually affect the climate and now am firmly in the " I don't know enough about this phenomenon to have a vocal opinion" camp.
You could just straight up not be born, and the CO2 saved by said action would only buy us 1 second of oil production.
There truly isn't much change if any at all you could make to purely just your lifestyle that would have any impact, really, on CO2 levels.
Not when the numbers are THAT staggering.
Policy/law changes are just about the only way the avg person could hope to impact CO2 levels.
And even then, it's not exactly something you can do alone.
Wasn't it BP that started pushing the whole "your personal carbon footprint" nonsense in the first place?
Trying to shift the blame onto the avg person who could really do nothing to help whatsoever besides voting for new laws and policy.
For the longest time, "recycling" has meant shipping the majority of your trash to somewhere labor is cheap enough for them to continue to sort it that slightest bit further than we do here at recycling plants, before finally just burying and/or burning it.
Recycling is great but it was never the answer, and was never really set up to BE the answer.
The ice melts naturally also depry.
We aren't even at temps higher than the peak of the last Interglacial Period.
Takes a lot more than minimalism to like engineer the earth's climate to be the same way it has been for the last couple thousand years when the climate is always a constantly changing Target and never static.
Is it really a scenario where you can like not pollute and be good to the planet and that causes the climate to be stable.
Feel like this is a constant logic error to that we could just not pollute and everything would be okay.
The big problems is that like 80% of the people who say they care about climate are not interested in any of these facts because they want to believe that like we could just minimize and not pollute and that'll like reverse climate change or something but you know climate change always happens naturally too.
This point people who are serious about it should be thinking like we need to take control of their climate because it's not naturally stable and it's too easy to screw up.