In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Your submission Pulitzer Prize Winning Investigative Journalist Seymour Hersh - How Americans took out the Nord Stream Pipeline was automatically removed because seymourhersh.substack.com is not on our .
r/politics has a number of conditions that domains must adhere to in order to be approved as an acceptable source.
Domains must:
Be notable, as defined by our .
Notable domains will consist of news organizations, research organizations, political advocacy groups, governmental agencies / bodies, and political parties.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
If you believe that you have a domain that is eligible for our approved domains list, please use the link at the end of this message to submit it to us.
However please note that if you submit spam or rule breaking content to us via the form, we will match the domain against this submission and may take action against your account.
If you submit a spam domain via the form, your account may be reported to the site administrators.
To submit a domain for approval and follow the instructions provided.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What a fascinating, detailed account of something the world was never supposed to know about.
Bravo to Mr. Hersh for covering this in spite of the backlash and vitriol it's likely to create.
Americans of all political persuasions should be concerned about the fallout and what it means for US diplomatic relations with our enemies and allies alike.
If Mr. Hersh's reporting is to be believed, and, given his reputation there doesn't appear to be any reason to do so, by destroying the Nord Stream Pipeline, the US has arguably committed an overt act of war.