Sex, food, drink, drugs, work, sleep, video games, gambling, war, crime, collecting things, exploring, exercising, tanning, rum ham, flying, sailing, firearms, reddit, pooping, magnets, fishing, hunting, thinking, plastic surgery, tattoos, prison, knitting, racing, sky diving, music, snowmobiling, wild cats, TV, the internet, beard maintenance, overthrowing foreign governments, sandcastles, pornography, religion, cults, flags, politics, licking stamps, huffing paint, blinking, yawning, masturbation, punching babies, feeding ducks, karate, model making, star gazing, silly puddy, cartoons, laughter, fire, texting, dogs, research, dirt bikes, chocolate, emojis, and butter.
Lots of people trying to sum this up as trying to stop normal human habits, but for some anecdotal details I used to work with young kids as a music teacher and Fortnite addiction 100% feels different from other gaming habits.
For one the kids who get hooked are at times waaaay too young, this isn't the high-schoolers dropping out of socializing bc of WOW like when I was younger, I had some kids that weren't even teens and had a visible Fortnite problem.
Yes we'll never stop potentially problematic human habits, but what we can stop is corporations taking advantage of vulnerabilities in kids to make $$ with potentially negative consequences.
The core biological flaw is in how the brain reacts to certain stimuli presented in a well-known and easily predictable sequence.
From a legal and/or moral perspective, does it really matter if the flaw is exploited to cause addiction via a chemical stimulus or a visual/auditory one?
Let's look at another example.
On one hand, if I'm well aware that a person is sensitive to strobe lights and it's reasonably foreseeable that they will go into a seizure if exposed to them, and I intentionally shine a strobe light in their eyes, I have certainly committed a crime.
On the other hand, if I slip a drug into their drink that is known for causing seizures in many people, I have also committed a crime.
This kind of lawsuit was successful against the tobacco corps, so who knows.
Both are intentionally designed to exploit flaws in the human brain's reward pathways, and both are designed to cause the same harm.
MMORPGs are especially bad for this.
I'd like to see it pursued from a different angle: the fact that they're marketing something they know causes harm directly to children.
Just like the tobacco corps (and more recently, the vape corps) have been caught doing multiple times.
If the intent is to cause the harm of addiction (a recognized medical disease), why does it matter how I go about doing it?
Nicotine is a chemically active addictive substance which is physically introduced into your system.
Video games manipulate the chemicals already there (like all forms of entertainment).
If I cause a helicopter pilot to crash by blinding him with a laser pointer, or I cause him to crash by firing a gun at it, what's the difference?
That it's only light?
If I knew for certain that telling the pilot a certain sequence of words would cause his brain to "error out" and cause him to crash (if such a sequence existed), would it be okay because it's just words?
Generally, if a company wants to do something that is known to be hazardous to everyone, we make them take steps to ensure the general public can't be exposed to it (e.g.
industrial chemical processing).
That's a bit different than making the hazard publically available and enticing everyone to come play with it.
And yeah, I don't think seizure warnings go far enough.
But in that case it's more reasonable because only a small percentage of people are susceptible and they should know to avoid it.
But in the case of addiction, everyone is susceptible to varying degrees.
And there's no good way to know ahead of time how susceptible you are, unless you've already experienced addiction.
For sure, addiction is challenging precisely because there's an element of free will involved.
There is a certain level of "background risk" for addiction that is inherent in our modern lives, just like there is a level of "background radiation" everywhere on Earth.
But the video game developers know that certain features they're adding exploit the addiction flaw to a much greater level than the background, and that's the reason they're adding those features.
I'm too old for Fortnite, but the best example I know of is World of Warcraft, where many small quests are used to string you along with a series of small dopamine spikes.
This specific pattern is known to cause addiction more easily than other patterns.
One more edit: this is assuming all of this is proven in court (e.g.
emails between employees discussing the addictive potential).
If all is proven, then I think they should succeed in their class action.
Not a good comparison at all.
You can train your brain into habits and create literal chemical changes to certain actions you take given enough time.
You know how foods grow on you?
You're reprogramming your brain.
Driving a car could be addictive, reading could be addictive, watching T.V.
Super poor honestly.
And I'd argue we should separate gambling which has the goal of abusing how your brain functions to take as much money from you as possible.
Social Media is a totally valid comparison imo with how disruptive it can be.
By the same logic, everything is slightly radioactive, so it'd be cool if I leave a kilo of plutonium in the middle of Times Square, right?
Look I agree with you on the whole games are designed to create these patterns but there's still the major difference between it being introduced into your system vs.
Your own actions forming a habit.
I'd argue alcohol should be further restricted before media is.
Part of the enjoyment of entertainment is using how our brain functions to maximize the appeal.
Plus there's also the whole slippery slope issue of what's actually the problem?
Exploiting how the brain functions?
Then advertising, television, music... hell porn..etc could be targeted?
The real issue to me is that they are appealing to children to milk them for money which takes advantage of their much less developed brain.
There were advertising laws passed to make it clear to children when something is a commercial vs show.
No reason to not have higher standards for predatory companies trying to target children again.
Absolutely agree with you on the children angle.
And even before Congress gets around to regulating it, they can and should sue on that basis in civil court.
I just think that certain games (and other media) take it farther than others, like the WoW example.
To the point where they're creating a public hazard, and then expecting everyone to avoid it perfectly (while enticing people towards it).
I agree, but I would argue that some games are designed to get you addicted much more effectively than others (like my WoW example elsewhere ITT).
I think the most egregious offenders should be regulated, because the risk of harm is so much greater than your average game or the various other fun things we do every day.
I still think my analogy is more appropriate than the nightclub one, because the developers probably did have an intent to cause addiction.
They designed WoW in a way that they knew everyone is vulnerable to become addicted to.
They had an obvious motive to get as many people as possible addicted, ideally everyone.
This not like a nightclub owner who has no intent to harm a photosensitive person, and gains nothing from doing so.
There's also the matter of intent.
If they were to go into discovery and find emails that the game developer knew their game would likely cause addiction and specifically designed it to do so, that raises things to a level beyond mere negligence.
Malicious actions tend to be very frowned upon by the courts, and are often punished by punitive damages.
They didn't force anyone to play their game, but they strongly enticed everyone to, and without a warning about potential addictiveness.
I'm pretty sure sports also help us channel our natural aggressive tendencies into less destructive things though.
As someone who doesn't care at all about sports.