They retired that one BUT Yes it did in fact go under the water, at the Edmonton Mall.
Canadian submariners used to go there after the mall closed and trained to see what conditions were like actually going under.
Just kidding of course (sort of) but yes our current subs are fucked and useless and should be towed away for scrap Dog shit since the day we got them as 'fucked and useless' from the Brits.
As far as the US is concerned, Canada may as well be Minnesota or Alaska.
If shit hits the fan, Canada is going to be defended as if it was domestic territory.
It would be a cold day in hell before the US allows Russia or China a foothold on the North American continent.
Australia is a world leader in loyal wingman UAVs.
MQ-28 is probably the single most advanced loyal wingman UAV in the world that we know of, and it's entirely Australian.
It's not even that.
It's that Canada criminally underfunds military R&D.
If Canada was a member of AUKUS, they'd effectively offer nothing to the group.
Canadian and Australian militaries are roughly the same size; 68K vs 60K.
Yet, Australia's military budget is almost 50% greater, with much of that going into R&D.
Australia is pumping billions into hypersonic weapons research, and is combining efforts with the US' programs.
Canada brings nothing to that hyper advanced R&D table, and doesn't even have money to simply sit on the sidelines and fund projects.
Inviting them does nothing to really assist in any of the projects that fall under it unfortunately, which is why no one talks about inviting Canada, but Australia and the US have both discussed inviting Japan to join.
That's because Japan will fund projects, and Japan will bring engineers.
We (UK) just announced our next gen fighter project in collaboration with Japan.
That wouldn't have happened if they weren't already on the track to joining.
Japan was working with the UK on Tempest long before AUKUS came to be.
They're both working on a new fighter jet with similar requirements and needs.
In 2017 for example, they signed an agreement to explore combining their fighter programs.
In June of 2021, Japan and UK agreed to use the same engine for both fighters.
AUKUS didn't come about until September of 2021, long after UK and Japan started working together on a fighter.
Fair enough I just remembered seeing the headline for the confirmation of the uk japan program after the aukus.
But evidently they arnt necessarily related.