In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Try explaining that to people who think that the first amendment covers their right to free speech on private platforms.
The people that scream the most about the constitution are usually the people that have no clue what the constitution actually says.
The 1st Amendment is not absolute, despite what many think.
There are carve-outs for blatant libel, slander, and defamation, and hopefully Fox News learns that the hard way via meaningful penalties.
It is hard to find the right balance of how much explaining you need to do to people who aren't interested in understanding.
Having spent multiple years trying to answer fools according to their folly, I think it is high time that people stop pretending that these arguments are being made in good faith and that there is any possibility of reasoning people out of something that they did not recent themselves into.
It feels as though most of the people who repeat these arguments ad nauseam our intentionally trying to distract from the origins of the First Amendment is related to John Milton's Areopagitica in which it was argued that bad books should be allowed to be printed for the purposes of seeing that Witch is wrong and being able to find that which is right by observing that which is not right.
He also made these arguments with the specific intent that authors and Publishers should be held accountable for mischievous or libelous works that they produce.
This can be obviously seen in the argument that was made by Rupert Murdoch's lawyers in their defense of Tucker Carlson in which the lawyer agreed that his program was not intended to be observed as factually accurate by reasonable viewers:
That said, their program is not meant to attract reasonable viewers and reasonable viewers do themselves a disservice by trying to treat the shock jock comedian Tucker Carlson as though he is trying to inform his viewers rather than misinform them with hyperbole and politically biased commentary.
While they may have been able to get away with it with the Karen McDougall case because she is a public figure and therefore needs to prove actual malice, the documented proof that these opinion programmers did not agree with the things that they were saying on their programs demonstrates actual malice in the case of the Dominion systems and the attempt to overturn the 2020 election.
I, faithful to the many generations before me, continue to value the written word above many other forms of communication.
There is something logical about printing it out in black and white that almost requires rebuttal or apologetics.