For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Biden helping Putin absolutely destroy his Legacy after 4 Years of Trump being Putins lackey is some serious karma for the history books.
Love to see it.
In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
In November 1994, days after Republicans took control of Congress for the first time in decades, President Bill Clinton slipped away to the Philippines.
In 2010, after Democrats lost 63 House seats, President Barack Obama took a swing through India, Indonesia, South Korea, Japan and Portugal.
When Republicans lost control of the House in 2018, President Donald J. Trump jetted to France for an Armistice Day celebration.
A few days ago, Mr. Biden seemed to be preparing for a trip to Egypt, Cambodia and Indonesia under a similar cloud, amid a low approval rating, many polls trending Republican and the fact that the president’s party nearly always loses seats in midterm elections.
Before Mr. Biden left Washinon on Thursday evening, it had become clear that a Republican rout had not materialized, with many races too close to call and control of both houses of Congress still in the balance.
He made a congratulatory call to Tina Kotek, the governor-elect of Oregon, while aboard Marine One en route to Egypt, and has not stopped working the phones since.
As of Saturday in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, where he had arrived for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit, he was able to return to his hotel from a gala dinner to speak with victorious Democrats back home, including Representatives David Trone of Maryland and Pat Ryan of New York.
By early Sunday, when the news came that Democrats had retained a Senate majority with a narrow victory by Senator Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, Mr. Biden’s trip began to look more like a victory lap.
“I’m incredibly pleased by the turnout,” Mr. Biden said.
“And I think it’s a reflection of the quality of our candidates.
And the — they’re all running on the same program.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.