In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Last year, they were urging Biden to cross that line between aiding Ukraine and involving the US enough to provoke Putin.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Republicans are in burn it all down mode and they’ve got 2 years to go.
The next Presidential election is going to determine how far this goes.
They are not going to stop themselves.
They were just yelling at Biden to shoot down a weather balloon and you got Marg using Ashli Babbitt's mom for show and tell in Congress.
Well up until Russia full on invaded Ukraine, again, Russia was the 2nd most bad ass military and super power in the world.
Oh and middle eastern terrorists were scary too.
Meh, the Taliban fled to Pakistan, whose northern region is mostly in support of them.
Bear in mind, they're a fucking nuclear state that the US pays hundreds of millions of dollars to just to secure those nukes.
Then there was the paper tiger of War profiteering that had been going on to make people rich for 20 years...
I think Nov 2024 will be the final nail in the coffin.
Depending on how things go.
If a Democrat wins then it’s more of the same.
If a Republican wins then it’s 4 years spiraling even further down.
Whatever happens between now and then 2024 is still going to be the turning point.
Regardless of the details.
Not much until around Nov 2024 is my guess.
“It has to get worse before it gets better.” There has to be a breaking point where dealing with daily sabotage by Republicans is no longer accepted as business as usual.
No longer accepted as that is how things are done.
No longer accepted as good enough.
It might be Republican coup round 2 in 2024.
Either way it goes Democrat politicians and voters need to cowboy up and stop the Republican sabotage.
Hoping for the best ain’t doing it.
>“The solution is that people don’t have to come to work to try to operate trains after they’ve had heart attacks and broken legs.
But right now, where we are is caught between shutting down the economy and getting enough Republicans to join us in making sure that people have access to sick leave.”.
So my point is not so much what Republicans are doing or will do, but the confidence we put in the people and Democrat politicians to be able to handle it.
So what about More vs Harper?
So what about Roe vs Wade?
So what about Jan 6th?
THE CAT IS OUT OF THE BAG.
Republicans have been in full burn it all down mode for too long now.
What is everyone else going to do about it?
I think we are past the point of critical thinking being the problem.
We’ve moved onto “strongly held beliefs.” Republican voters are fueled by fear and anger.
They can’t emotionally handle sitting down and thinking out some things.
It really does cause them mental discomfort.
They also have susceptibility to a mindset that can operate with religion making total sense to them.
Throw on some Fox News Propaganda/Gospel that Democrats are The Enemy and they are going to eat your babies… yeah, we are past worrying about critical thinking.
People voted for Trump and Herschel Walker because they are smart businessmen and those voters also "own their own business".
There are some progressives who bring the snark, I think.
It’s one reason why Cortez is popular and why Republicans hate her so much.
She’s fighting back in a number of ways and not just snark.
These types of people will always be around.
The problem is they have been driving for too long when they should not even be allowed anywhere near the keys.
Meanwhile we have Democrat politicians and Lucy’s football and Hope for the Best^TM .
Republicans have stepped up their game with twisting words, destroying discussion, fucking banning books.
In 2023.
Way past a difference of political opinion because Republicans have none.
They have fear and anger which they say is just as good as your critical thinking.
You can't convince someone their god doesn't exist.
But you can get a group of people to toss little Susie in a pond because she's a witch.
Which is fine for a whole lot of people.
It’s not fine for the few people running the country.
It’s not fine for Republicans running the country to use them.
Politics is not supposed be a team sport.
Fear and anger is what they latched onto.
Getting them to change is hard because for a lot of people “it’s not a good idea until it’s their idea” or at least think that it is their idea.
That takes time, persistence, and luck.
At this point though they are a lost cause.
Democrats and progressives need to move forward and stop turning around to play stupid games.
Leadership by example.
Republicans will start to see things get better.
They don’t have to be right they just don’t want to be wrong.
The Infrastructure Reduction Act, aka, getting shit done, is a great example that is happening right now that Republican politicians spent a lot of time and money to fight against just to make Democrats look bad by sabotaging the government.
They are taking credit for it now though as usual and that is considered business as usual.
>“The solution is that people don’t have to come to work to try to operate trains after they’ve had heart attacks and broken legs.
But right now, where we are is caught between shutting down the economy and getting enough Republicans to join us in making sure that people have access to sick leave.”.
Yeah, the one that didn't want to lower the flag to half mast at 100,000 official COVID deaths and didn't acknowledge the one million deaths from COVID mark, but kept fighting against masks and vaccinations.
The ones who keep pushing for more abortion restrictions after doctors testified in front of them how it was endangering/killing their patients.
Indiana, which after the ten year old got an abortion there, banned abortion and tried to figure out how to prosecute the doctor who performed the abortion.