Anti-personnel mines are, especially the ones the Russians are using which are just complete and utter war crimes, however anti-tank mines are very cool indeed when used appropriately.
Stick 'em nice and visible on a road, now your enemy has 2 choices, use another road, or stay hours at that one cleaning them up, meanwhile your pre-ranged artillery can hit 'em hard.
The Ottawa treaty was a beautiful idea, but once a country like Russia does not agree to it, none of the neighbouring countries should've not done it either.
but Finland for example did and it was one of the most stupid decision they could've made back then.
Records don't help the other side from clearing their territory of these mines.
Also in a warzone some records will be lost/ignored/ messed up, and even missed mine is a potentially blended civilian kid.
They are ok, if the mines are actually mapped correctly.
For example how to prevent the enemy from disarming AT mines?
Place some god damn anti personnel mines around them.
Heck, even if you have all the maps, rebuilding after a conflict isn't easy and a bunch of people likely will be killed by those mines before you can afford to get to then.
So in the end it's the same as other convenctions - we choose to be less evil, even if it puts us at a disadvantage.
Mines are supposed to be a defensive weapon.
Heck all weapons are probably ideally supposed to be like that.
"Records don't help the other side from clearing their territory of these mines.
Also in a warzone some records will be lost/ignored/ messed up, and even missed mine is a potentially blended civilian kid.
".
Once the mines are laid on the other sides territory, the wrong doing happens.
Well It already happened with the attack.
When placed as traps in civilian areas, laid by the hundreds by scattering via air etc.
I'ts not ok.
No such thing as defensive weapon really, other than nukes.
Everything else can be repurposed offensively.
War is a horrible thing and there are always civilian casualties.
Unexploded ordnance will always be found in war zones and they can be just as harmful to civilians.
If you lay down defensive mines on your own territory that are marked, it's absolutely fine as a defensive measure if yet again done as responsively as possible.
Mines are probably the most effective defensive weapon a country can have, and I'm saying it again, but it's absolutely insane that they were given up on as a DEFENSIVE weapon.
Although I'm pretty sure that a handful of countries haven't really given up on them.
They're destroying them slowly 1-2 mines in a year just to stick to the agreements.
But as time has shown and like the saying goes with a harsh translation; A Russian will always be a Russian even if it's fried in butter.
I want to understand the being the better person- mentality that people and countries have/had considering something like this.
Also, there are very few cases where you will want to lay mines in your own territory in advance, as that territory now becomes useless to you for anything else.
Not to mention that your have to inform your people which areas are mined, so your enemies will have that information to, and just avoid the minefields.
As such moves are way more effective when layed quickly where enemies don't expect them (for example securing a strategic target that you just took over in a foreign territory).
Aren't nukes almost the only weapon you don't wan't to use in your own territory?
I would call that entirely an offensive weapon.
They were designed to be a battlefield weapon to deliver death on a large scale even to long distances.
What comes to mines, you definitely don't need to hide them.
As long as your enemy can't or doesn't want to use a road they're laid on, they've served their purpose.
You can mark them for your people too.
I yet again bring Finland as an example.
It's geographically full of forests, lakes and small roads.
This forces any attacker to use those roads because there aren't many fields to drive on especially in the east.
As long as an attacker is halted because they see a lot of mines on a larger road, they become an incredibly easy target.
If they divert their route to a smaller route, they become easy target because the only way to move on smaller roads is a column.
Easy way to prevent your enemy from using disarming AT mines is to protect those mine with AP mines and other means.
"As such moves are way more effective when layed quickly where enemies don't expect them (for example securing a strategic target that you just took over in a foreign territory).
".
But why would you be in a foreign territory to begin with?
There's no other reason to do that unless you were attacked first and after that it is entirely the initiators own fault if there are mines in their territory.
And yes, there are areas where mines are effective that way, but the impact wouldn't be that massive.
AP mines won't really work on a highway unless you blow it up first, and even on a highway, trucks will be moving in a column, just a bit faster.
And speed doesn't matter that much.
And again, no one is preventing you from using the same tactic on the enemy territory, when you have to abandon an area or have a chance to scout ahead.
A weapon doesn't have to be used to be effective.
In the case of nukes, you can't use them when you are invading someone, but they are very effective at preventing other countries from invading you.
The best example is Russia now.
Hence "defensive".
Also, if no one had a reason to invade foreign territories, we wouldn't need weapons, to begin with.
You can use a nuke when you're invading.
That is for example one of the things what has been feared that the Russians would do.
There are tactical nukes that are devastating but affect a lot smaller area than the ones you probably imagine.
The original topic of this was if mines are an acceptable weapon.
Imo they're.
If used defensively in YOUR OWN TERRITORY.
"Also, if no one had a reason to invade foreign territories, we wouldn't need weapons, to begin with".
We absolutely would.
They would be to protect us if someone attacked our territory.
Even without a reason.
Not all militaries and forces are made to attack other nations.
They can exist solely to protect their own territory and are even prohibitet of engaging in offensive wars.
You can use nukes for mass murder, but you can't use it for any offensive, because the rest of the world would shred you apart for it.
And yes, while a deterrent is a better word, it doesn't change the fact that it's pretty much only weapon that your can't really (effectively) use in an offensive capacity.
The idea is that even if you can brush it aside with your feet, your armored vehicles have now stopped, and your infantry have had to to dismount and need to focus on mine clearing instead of fighting as they are pinned down by enemy fire, mortars and artillery.