I noticed it the last few summers.
Until a few years ago, whenever i would leave the window open each night there would be dozens of insects coming in.
Now it is maybe 1 every other day.
IMHO, the collapse of the insects' population has little to nothing to do with climate change.
The latter is caused by greenhouse gases, while the former seems to be caused by something, or many things, that is/are toxic to insects.
Theoretically, we can get climate change under control, but still lose our insects.
As lowering our emissions, recapturing and thus reducing the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere significantly can halt climate change or even reverse it.
But will very probably not save the insects.
Last I heard, insects are very sensitive/vulnerable to loss of wild nature (i.e.
everything's becoming more and more like sterilized gardens, even forests), light pollution, electromagnetic fields, pesticides and other pollutants.
If you think halting climate change is tough for humanity to accomplish, well, saving our insects will even be harder.
As the problem is far more complex, with no single cause identified yet.
And, reducing CO2 is relatively easy, but how the heck are we meant to reduce electromagnetic fields if tomorrow some smart scientific proved they're responsible for insects' population collapse?
Even if you want to plant natives, finding natives commercially is a pain and lots are protected by governments prohibiting the collection of them in the wild, including cuttings to propagate.
One part of this is the decline of native plant species.
Between expansion of suburban areas filled with lawns and introduced plant species, agricultural land, and introduced species escaping into the wild and crowding out natives, many insects are losing their food sources.
The insects that eat those insects then also lose their food sources.
Add in the careless use of pesticides and other air pollutants, and yeah..
Edit: everyone should plant an oak tree in their yard if you have the chance.
They are immensely important keystone species that provides food and shelter for a wide variety of insects.
Also going to plug “the nature of oaks” by Doug Tallamy.
Yes that’s true.
Unfortunately it can be hard to find a wide variety of native species.
If you’re in the Midwest, there is Prairie Nursery that ships plants.
Also Prairie Moon nursery.
You can always search for native nurseries in your area.
I’m also lucky to have a farmer at our local farmers market who sells wildflower seeds that he collects from his property.
And thankfully, the trend has been moving toward people wanting more native plants, and growers and nurseries are realizing the trends.
I’d welcome others adding any native plant sources they know if.
Yeah, I've looked in this area.
There are only a few places that sell plants/seeds for a week or two each year and have a very limited quantity as well.
I can't stress enough how we literally have no users' guide telling us how to manage things.
We're learning by doing with zero gods, creators or other super beings guiding us through the process.... And did I say that everything was literally trying to kill us for the vast majority of our history.
Of course we're surprised that mother earth is actually fragile, and needs us to be way better than what we are.
This situation is a very slippery slope to hating humans.
But let us remember that humans are the first animal species (to our knowledge), that must learn to self-discipline and self-regulate.
All other life forms have other life forms constraining them, keeping them in check.
No other protest comes close to what boomers did.
Even the Black Lives Matter protest were only 3 percent of the US population (about ten millions) at the moment they were happening.
Well, boomers were also the ones who organized the biggest protest ever.
In the seventies, over twenty million young Americans marched and protested in America.
That's more than ten percent of the US population of the time gone into the streets to protest for the first ever "Earth Day".. And they did that to put pressure on Nixon's government to do more to protect nature (Nixon was forced into signing into law the clean air act, clean water act, create the EPA, etc.
etc.
).
Well, we thought, we were winning.
But discovered new limits.
And now, we're learning to auto-regulate ourselves.
We literally didn't have to learn any of that until we became a global species.
Whenever resources lacked, we simply moved to a new place.
Until not too long ago, we really thought earth was infinite in its resources.
Well, we were wrong.
And we are learning.
Humanity didn't get any guide books, training, nor goals.
We woke up one day, and literally everything was trying to kill us.
We didn't feel at home right away.
Our ancestors fought like crazy to make earth safer for us.
And just read what happened in the US between 1967 and 1990s.
A time when the boomers were between twenty years old and forty years old: they fought to improve America and the world (e.g.
women's rights, rights for homosexuals, fight against racism and other bigotries, fight to save the unions and keep the Democratic Party to the left.
But they deeply lost that fight.
Indeed in 1947, when the first boomeres were only one year old, Congress severely castrated US unions, and stripped them of their fundamental rights and freedoms, that Europeans take for granted.
Boomers never managed to save them.
).
The late sixties to early nineties were a time of great activism.
People would give up their university education, their careers, and just move to another state to help advance a cause, for years.
Boomers were also the hippies fighting against the military and wall-street.
Young people tend to forget that....
And you?
Hating on people based on their age?
how does that help?
what are you doing to improve our world????
?
IMHO, it's up to the young and energetic people to improve their country.
But all is lost if the young starts complaining like weak old people.
Boomers have the right to fuck up now.
They're old, and don't understand the world anymore.
They're tired, and want to feel safe by putting a stop to change, or even reverting back to older ways.
Like an old person feeling better and safer with windows 95, or Windows 98, and feeling completely confused with the latest tech in 2022.
That's a normal evolution.
So yeah, this hate against boomers is really weird.
And only shows that young people have very old hearts and minds.
However, what's incredible weird is to hear and see young people behaving like old people: complaining, being entitled, making loads of accusations, etc.
etc.
instead of just doing something to improve their country.
I don't see you out there organizing collective actions, nor trying to improve your country.
Just here complaining about a bunch of old people that are now in their 60s.
Imagine the kind of respect people would have had for Obama or Biden if they just sat on their asses and complained about their predecessors.
Yeah, imagine that.
People see a bug in their yard and then spray pesticides that kill anything it hits and it drifts multiple yards away.
Just go look at r/gardening for examples of this.
It's like they don't realize that bugs eat plants.