The Central Asians are more than a little rooting for Ukraine.
They likely assume two things (1) if Russia is successful in Ukraine they're likely on the menu too; and (2) do to geography they can't expect significant or likely any outside help.
From 24.02.2022 to 08.01.2023 (Day 319) estimated Russian losses so far (change since previous day):
⚡️ There are heavy battles near Kremennaya.
There the Russian troops moved several battalions of paratroopers and heavy equipment.
Russians are slowly “sagging” there, says the head of the Regional Military Administration, Serhii Haidai.
With how bad Russia's communication and command, you have to wonder, even if Russia was completely honest about a cease fire, if they could even communicate to the front lines to cease fire.
Russia has visually confirmed lost an equivalent of 42% of its tanks that were in active service before the war.
On Sunday, three Russian helicopters incl.
Mi-24 Hind and Ka-52 Alligator (NATO reporting name: Hocum-B) were shot down by Ukrainians, reports Gen. Staff of AFU in the summary of the day.
Journalists visited the place in Kramatorsk where Russians claimed to have hit 600 Ukrainian soldiers, but aside from 2 holes in the ground in front of an empty building (yes, they even missed that) nothing is there.
⚡️ Ukrainian military will begin training in the handling of the Bradley IFV this month, says the representative of the US Defense Ministry Laura Cooper.
"This new training program we’re starting is about one battalion at a time.
So, around 500 soldiers each month," says Cooper.
This right here is a key point.
You can't assume a rational analytical process when someone demonstrates time an again they don't do rational analysis.
A few responded to me today saying I should “teach” Elon Musk why I disagreed w/ his “tanks are dead” tweet instead of blowing him off.
Politicians from the Tyumen city government from Putin's United Russia party collected money and donated an old red Zhiguli to the soldiers on the front.
Not a joke.