IIR the eight F-16s flew in tight formation, following a regular airline route and squawking an airline code so as to appear as a single airplane flying its normal route.
“On June 7, 1981, eight Israeli fighter jets flew 2,000 miles to Iraq and destroyed Saddam Hussein’s Osirak nuclear reactor in Baghdad, before successfully returning back.”.
Yes, and Iran knows this, which is why they've structured their nuclear weapons program to make it impossible to wipe it out with a one-off strike like this.
Interestingly, as I read a bit more about it, it appears the Iranians briefed the Israelis on their raid to assist in the Israeli planning and offered them the use of an airfield in case of emergencies.
I don't imagine that's happened very often.
Yes!
Right at the start of the Iran-Iraq war.
The reactor was not yet operational, and the damage was not extensive, and was repaired before the Israeli's obliterated it.
It can be a war crime to impersonate civilians or noncombatants in order to attack the enemy, although the rules were primarily written to address soldiers, uniforms, flags, etc... and it's unclear if they would apply here.
Pretending to be a civilian airliner in order to strike a military target endangers real civilian airliners.
Pretending to be a civilian and taking advantage of the protections afforded to civilian airliners in order to attack the enemy reads like it would qualify as perfidy to me.
Camouflaging yourself as a civilian or misinforming people about your civilian/noncombatant status is perfidy 101.
I can't see how anyone could describe warplanes broadcasting civilian codes in order to strike and kill the enemy as "not perfidious" when it explicitly says you cannot feign civilian, non-combatant status?
The section on ruses of war that you quoted explicitly includes "and which are not perfidious" after all.
FWIW, I can't find anything backing up OP's claim that Israel was broadcasting civilian airliner codes, although I did find lots of condemnation of the attack as against international laws more generally.