I'm actually hoping a complete loss is enough to humiliate Russia away from their unearned nationalism.
You think LOSING is going to discourage mindless, fanatic nationalists?
One of the biggest factors of the rise of fascism in Nazi Germany was the loss of WWI.
"Our glorious army would have won the war if they weren't stabbed in the back by the civilian government.
".
Russia... has not been winning at all.
It's a bit harder to swing when they are losing to a much smaller nation rather than winning for three years against larger nations (counting the colonies).
Originally it was stabbed in the back by the government, and that was becoming popular even in 1919.
The Jews were added to the mix by the Nazis when it became a "world wide conspiracy".
Of course, Germany was mainly able to do this because their army was, outside of the 100 days, not defeated.
They had won from 1914-1917, and even knocked Russia out.
They were even winning for part of 1918.
And that would be a valid argument... if they weren't exhausted from the Brusilov offensive and pushed far back into their own territory.
If you look at the it would be easy to say that Russia wasn't pushed back near as far as the Soviets, however WW1 was not WW2- it was a more traditional war not a war of extermination.
And Russia had lost almost every battle with Germany.
Heck, look at where Russia attacked a distracted Germany early in the war and lost, horribly.
Russia in WW1 was a story of defeat after defeat, with their only successes being against the even more backwards Austria Hungary, and that was a large reason for the revolution, no different than after the Russo-Japanese war where a similar defeat caused an uprising against the Tsar.
Yes, it even forced him to make a constitution and quite a few reforms, in fact it is cited as a full blown , though the Tsar walked back many of the reforms over time.
Was it an uprising?
I thought it was more against the intelligentsia and they were looking to the czar for support against them and he just had the serfs all fucked up in bloody Sunday.
That being said, the heat of the firebombs, or rather the temperature on the street during the bombings, was estimated at 1800 degrees Fahrenheit- enough to instantly cook anyone.
For comparison, the surface of the sun is about 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
We literally turned a city into a furnace at 20% the temp of the sun.
Dresden was actually one of the critical targets- it housed more than 110 factories and was a major railhub.
That doesn't make what happened right, but there was at least alot of military value in the city.
It was the former capital of the Kingdom of Saxony before that was absorbed into Germany, and so it retained massive importance.
First, we are talking about the current war, which while they are on foreign territory they have had hits on their homefront, unlike WW1 Germany.
Aye it's why they would never accept a negotiated peace.
Even early on the Allies were clear- unconditional surrender and occupation.
They weren't interested in a third war another 20 years down the line.
Second, to my knowledge, they took a piece of Georgia, and they got away with it.
Though that has been almost 15 years, so over a decade.
They took Crimea, and while they got away with it on paper their economy cratered.
The Ruble lost just under half of its value and never recovered.
Now their economy is in tatters, their trade partners have dried up, and what partners are still willing to trade with them are taking advantage and demanding much better terms and prices than their goods would get on the open market.
Their people no longer get access to the same goods they are used to, and prices are going up.
So they have taken territory from two countries over the past 15 years, and while it was successful up until this last grab they have been suffering economically.
And now militarily.
I wonder how history would have been changed if the war in Europe continued until the nuclear bombs were ready to use in summer of 1945.
If Germany and Japan had both been struck by nuclear weapons I wonder what it would have changed.
They're cooperative, which is what we actually want.
I believe it's Kekkonen's vision, as in Japan won't start shit because the current status quo benefits it.
Unfortunately, this didn't seem to work for Russia and as they improved they became more likely to start shit.
From my perspective any system that allows the authority to oppress people is a system that will inevitably oppress people.
The more authoritarian this society, the more likely it already is oppressing people.
This will remain true for both fascism and socialism.
I'd prefer mild fascism over any socialism that is more authoritarian than Japan or Korea currently are.
The western liberal partial democratic Republic/constitutional monarchy system isn't perfect but it does allow some accountability via making the people responsible for judging government.
Such a system doesn't devolve how Russia did, which is the topic of today.
There are times it's appropriate, if you win a world cup I'm not going to care if you're obnoxious for a week or two.
.