In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This article was what made me finally realize that GOP voters are genuinely evil, not misguided, and that good faith bipartisanship with them was not just impossible but indefensible.
And the knowledge that they only understand violence, and therefore can only be defeated with violence, left me with the grim conclusion that the days of the US as we know it are numbered.
I will not be surprised if there is civil war or even balkanization in our near future.
Left and right wing ideologies are incompatible so long as they can't even agree on something as basic as human rights, and the moderate majority that care more about personal stability than societal progress are part of the problem.
For the record it's only prudish conservatives who're mad about genitals literally everybody else either doesn't care or wants to fight against laws like this because letting anyone be treated like a second class citizen is morally bankrupt.
Gender is a socially constructed thing we base society on which both sexes are supposed to act/think in a certain way.
Literally no part of that is sexual.
In fact children have a basic concept of who they are as far as their gender is concerned around 4 years old.
Sexuality does come later but I promise you that teaching kids it's okay to not be straight won't end society.
If it's non sexual and presented as a pageant or talent show I don't see why not.
Like seriously there's much worse things in this world that a kid could be exposed to and a group of men in vibrant make-up and dresses isn't even in the top hundred.