Point to note here that gay marriage is not illegal.
It is unrecognized.
It is not illegal to socially marry someone.
You just don't get the government benefits that come with it and you can't fuse your finances, and you don't get spousal rights.
What will probably happen is that the Supreme Court will ask the Executive to ensure that there's some kind of recognition and to formulate a policy on it.
That's one of the reasons it's so hard for a Court to just strike down the marriage law as unconstitutional.
Things like who gets the money and stuff heavily codified into Indian law.
Specifically to protect women who would otherwise get the shitty end of a divorce.
Which is pretty fucking bad.
So more power to these guys.
We have a liberal Supreme Court.
But I don't think it'll happen.
Or if it does, it'll be a case of gross overreach by the Supreme Court.
How does not merging finances work?
In the UK, I can essentially merge finances with anyone - I can take a joint bank account with anyone as well as Co-sign on anything like a mortgage, loan, whatever else.
There is enough agreement in the political circles even some people in the right wing - that gay people deserve equal rights in a society.
But they haven't figured out what to do with the whole marriage system.
It all heavily uses Man woman language.
It needed to be this way because the framers of our constitution wanted to protect women's rights so they had to codify equal distribution of property into the constitution which was not otherwise a custom.
Even more complex, India allows you to choose between Hindu Law - codified based on Hindu beliefs, Muslim Law - based on the Quran, Foreigner Law - solemnified abroad, and civil Law - secular Law.
So one solution is to simply let people in the civil Law and foreigner Law get married and religions get to keep their laws.
So anyone who wants to get married can while not throwing up a political shitstorm.
Yep.
Maybe that's different.
In India, there are certain things you can only do with a spouse or a relative.
The assumption is that otherwise you'd just be able to scam people.
We've always thought of it as normal.
Good to learn.
So yeah.
Any recognition of Gay Marriage will require heavy legislation - what the rights of spouses are, who gets the peoperty, who gets the baby etc?
Which is not the domain of the courts.
It's interesting to see this.
Since women's rights and the abolition of 'marriage benefits' happened prior to same sex marriage, this isn't really an issue here.
I have a mortgage and two kids with my partner and we'll likely never marry, there's no demand to.
Same sex marriage was kinda trivial in the end.
We have banned conversion theory.
There was widespread agreement that while we don't wanna upend our marriage system, we should not be torturing people to turn them straight.
While our politicians are not overtly homophobic, they're homophobic enough for this to not he a priority.
So let's do everything we can without really getting into that can of worms.
Some states are doing well.
A lot of states have started affirmative action programs for trans people.
Several schools and one states are introducing LGBTQ rights in school curriculums.
We have our first LGBTQ justices, news casters, atheletes, elected officials.
A lot happening but it's gonna take a unique trajectory because India is skipping through different reforms.