I mean, politics aside, Russia was a top tourist destination.
Not much to see in Qatar apart from desert.
It’s also close to Europe, so it’s much easier for Europeans to travel to.
I mean, Russia are obviously whack but did they try and force strict rules on visitors like Qatar did?
I feel that’s what was the most off putting for fans this time around.
Well there were reports from the Russian World Cup scene that Swedish football fans emptied a Russian town of beer after their team won a match.
Would not expect that to happen in Qatar.
It was pretty lame of Qatar to agree to WC sponsorship deals then pull a “nada we’re not gonna allow it suck it up” last minute.
What’s football without beer?
And it was especially lame that they still allowed alcohol sale, just not to plebs lol.
This World cup was never about the fans.
It was the Qatar Royal family blowing 200b for their own front row seats.
The fans can live in shipping containers for all they care.
shows that Brazil had 6.4M in 2019 vs Russia’s 24.4.
Russia received four times the tourists Brazil received, so no Russia is more popular.
But that could also be attributed to its close proximity to Europe (Europeans get lots of paid holidays and have higher GDP per capita so they can easily afford traveling overseas).
Also I said politics aside so we’re not taking current political climate into consideration, and Russia in 2018 during Russia WC definitely had better PR than Russia in 2022 (though it was still bad).
Empty seats at bars (2018 and last year’s UEFA cup had the streets filled with red and white), no flags on houses or cars, nobody wore team shirts, hats, face paint or chanted anything.
Ad campaigns and brands did/are doing the absolute bare minimum.
If I didn't watch TV or use social media I wouldn’t know anything was going on at all.
I didn’t watch a single game of Qatar WC.
I know what this WC succeeded at: showing me how ugly the Qatar RF really is (which I didn’t care to research before) and letting me know I should never visit.
As a Dane, honestly this is the deadest World Cup I’ve ever seen.
My dad said the same and he’s followed every WC since 1982.
Thanks for all the stats!
You’re a better redditor than me for actually doing research and I was kinda just pulling stuff out of my ass lol.
I guess my point is more Russia vs Qatar since that’s the stats given.
(The popular and touristy part of ) Russia is still closer to most of Europe than Qatar, Brazil and South Africa.
It can’t just be the weather either- I've been at bars over the past couple of weekends and passed plenty of people drinking outside in my nearest city too.
Are we witnessing a PR disaster, did FIFA/Qatar really read the room that badly?