In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
ATLANTA — For the better part of eight months, they gathered inside the Fulton County Courthouse, reviewing evidence in a sprawling criminal investigation into whether former president Donald Trump and his allies broke the law when they sought to overturn Trump’s 2020 election loss in Georgia.
Two weeks after declaring the grand jury’s work complete and dissolving the panel, Fulton County Superior Court Judge Robert McBurney has scheduled a hearing Tuesday to determine whether to make its final report public.
From reporter Holly Bailey: The panel was dissolved two weeks ago.
On Tuesday, a judge will consider whether its report should be made public.
That debate is likely to draw conflicting views.
Fulton County District Attorney Fani T. Willis (D) is expected to pursue charges and could argue for parts, if not all, of the report to be unsealed in coming weeks.
Attorneys for those who have been notified they are targets of the investigation, meanwhile, are likely to press McBurney to keep the report private indefinitely.
While McBurney is not expected to immediately rule on the report’s release, the hearing is likely to herald a new chapter in a criminal inquiry that could present fresh legal peril for Trump and his allies.
The report’s potential release comes against the backdrop of other investigations into alleged efforts by Trump and his supporters to subvert the 2020 election results in key battleground states.
Here's to them having overwhelming proof of what Trump did as well as others too.
Hopefully Trump's narcissism led him to leave a well established amount proof besides just the call which is damning enough to convict that sorry POS and his fellow conspirators.