In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Jeremy is the guy who lived in one district and bought a house in a different district and ran for supervisor of the first district claiming he lived there and his wife lived at the other house.
He was sad when the bank paperwork came out and showed his signature stating that he was a resident of house 2 and it was a stipulation of his loan that he live there.
He then did what any outraged republican would do and filed a lawsuit and promptly lost.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's like a guy having an affair on his wife keeps accusing her of having an affair.
Guilty conscience?
Cheats think everybody is a cheater?
What is it?
That's bad, don't get me wrong.
But it's a technical violation, like my wife using my credit card at the gas station.
Skimming the article it sounded like maybe this was a voter registration drive that forged some application signatures when people who were genuinely intending to register forgot to sign correctly.
Which is why I was surprised to learn that Kim Phuong Taylor pulled this stunt exclusively on Vietnamese immigrant families with limited English and US civics experience.
But read more closely: it looks like she actually participated in, or herself intercepted and filled out, 23 actual ballots.
It's hard to tell for sure if she literally filled out the ballot herself.
It may be that because she fraudulently caused the absentee ballot to be requested, and then caused it to be submitted and counted, it is still criminal even if she did not actually fill it out.
Because this is a Federal case, you can read the details for free on the Free Law Project's RECAP website, once a user pays for them on PACER and downloads to the mirror.
Looks like nobody has done so yet; the reporting is probably based on the DOJ's press release.
Gonna go spend some PACER dimes.