Seriously I roll my eyes so hard got a lot of friends fighting so hard against elimination of some many mind numbing, back breaking, sanity cracking positions, that a robot would be so much better off doing.
They are so stuck on well people will be out of a job, not realizing that it was going to happen at some point anyway better to start planning what comes next rather than fighting progression.
This take is assuming that those who resist are Luddites but within this we see the problem with that view.
In fact, the Luddites who are portrayed as being scared of technology were not at all against the technology but rather the way in which the technology was used as a tool of class oppression.
It's not the mechanization that is the problem, the problem is who benefits and who loses when the automation is introduced.
Calling it "progress" is a loaded term.
Except I'm not taking the owner class.
I'm looking at where technology has come from a historical perspective and where it is going.
There is no freaking stopping that as hard as you try.
What we can do is institute government action to help provide support systems to deal with the fall out.
Did we stop the replacement of automation and the implementation of assembly manufacturing during industrial revolution?
No.
Did we stop small little shops prior to that time period from being eliminated because it they got efficiency out and the cost of production basically drove them out of existence, no we did not.
Can we stop the elimination of positions that can be fully automated no.
What we can do is provide the systems and support systems to help with that transition.
Next is overlords keeping their control of resources, getting rid of plebs (though death and not by sharing wealth with everybody) and divide the world between themselves.
I completely agree that getting rid of shitty jobs is a fine idea and moreover I think that the vast majority of jobs including not just factory work but cashiers, drivers and even teachers are all doing shitty mostly useless jobs.
I agree 100% that those are all shitty jobs that should be eliminated and we'd be better off with out them.
However, in the process of getting from here to there there we have to begin with political reform to take the power out of the hands of the owner class, the investor class.
The problem is that they would rather die than let go of their control and that means there is a need for confrontation.
When you take the side of the investor class and say --"Oh well just let the owners introduce automation as they see fit" you're laying the foundation for a massive expansion of the already vast wealth divide.
Doing so is taking a side in a very real class war.
That's what is being discussed, not the value of a shitty job that should be automated.
You can take the side of the investor class if you decide that's who you are but you should not pretend that it is something other than what it is like some sort of practical common sense view of the world.
The topic of automation is the topic of class war.
It definitely depends on the art.
But there are a lot of very skilled people who are good at doing nuance starts and create some incredible pieces.
That's an interesting take but in response I would draw your attention to a work entitled the Great Transformation by Romanian sociologist Karl Polyani written in the 1930s.
In that book, Polyani outlined three fictions which would destroy human civilization if left unchecked.
The three fictions were labor, real estate and money.
"Labor" is simply a fiction that refers to time and "real estate" is a fiction that refers to space and "money" is a fiction to begin with as it tries to objectify value itself and is merely an image on a coin or a bill.
It's worth considering that owning the land and owning your home are two different things.
This is the distinction between personal property and private property.
Personal property are things like your home that you live in, your car, your tooth brush, your dishes you eat off of.
Those are different from private property in the form of, say, a factory.
The latter category of private property should be shared with the public in order to maximize the former category of personal property.
So what I'm driving at is that we don't need real estate sales in order to have homes that are our personal property.
There is no genuine basis for the concept of "ownership" of the land.
We are all part of the land and return to it when we die.
While we live we can share it and that doesn't mean we can't have private homes at the same time.