Basically the article centers around reports from Vadym Skibitsky, who is Ukraine's deputy military intelligence chief, and Andriy Chernyak, who is a Ukrainian Military Intelligence Service representative.
What they're claiming is that Russia plans to mobilize 500k troops for a spring offensive and what they believe is that if that offensive fails, it will lead to the downfall of Putin.
Ukraine estimates that Russia has 280k troops in Ukraine, so a mobilization of 500k would represent a huge escalation.
No one knows how many they actually mobilized - the decree ordering mobilization contained a classified section about how many were to be called up even though the top people were saying it was 300k - considering that they also said it would be a limited range of people and be given training before being deployed to relatively safe positions (ie not on the front line)... well.
Your guess might actually not be too far off...
How does classified stuff like that work?
Surely they still have to give out the orders to enlist.
Does the classified just make it so there's no paper trail and word of mouth would leak less?
For something like this, people being mobilised don't need to know "you're one of 500k being mobilised".
People only find out what they need to find out.
The people who need to know they require 500k new troops know, and are able to set that in motion.
People on the ground actually enlisting people aren't going to enlist the entire 500k themselves.
So they won't need to know how big the project is or how widespread the orders are.
It really depends on the mood of the Russian people at that point.
So far they’ve bene pacified, but every soldier mobilized leaves a family behind and every soldier killed increases the number of people who have personally lost from this war.
So with every mobilization and each attack, the prospect for war fatigue grows.
Meanwhile, the sanctions will continue to slowly eat away at the Russian economy, making life progressively harder for the average citizen, which could in turn lead to increasing discontent with their government.
None of that is guaranteed to lead to Putin’s downfall, but the possibility of it increases as this war drags on and he brings more troops into it.