I'm just imagining the leaders of the various countries both in the EU and NATO awkwardly switching between which chairs they're sitting on throughout the meeting to indicate whether they are talking as EU or NATO.
Coupled with the peace proposal that will be sent to the UN by Ukraine, I'm wondering whether the strategy is to first, reach a peace deal with Russia and then rapidly incorporate Ukraine into the EU, and afterwards, into NATO.
That would inhibit future attacks by Russia.
Putin: how dare the evil west draw away our Slavic little brother with the promise of improved circumstances?
Yankee bastards.
NATO: ok Ukraine, 2014 sucked, but don’t rearm because it might piss Russia off.
We’ll train and totally revamp how you go about the art of war but no new western equipment.
Also.
You guys so poor.
Not as bad as before, but still.
Totally achieved what we wanted… why of course we are not defeated.
Also, don’t you dare because nukes.
Putin (2022): we are totally not preparing to invade.
Again.
But if Ukraine does anything, or doesn’t, who’s to say?
If NATO says anything, nukes.
The collective West (2022): they are totally planning an invasion but probably as a bluff.
Or not.
Let’s demonstrate that we are privy to the conversations.
See how that works.
Putin: what?
No!
Why do you keep resisting?
We only want to kill you.
How dare you prolong the suffering.
The west: you know, let’s give some more.
Not enough to turn the tide… we don’t want to make the war angry.
Ukraine: not enough.
We are willing to put our lives in the line here, just give us weapons.
We won’t want your children to fight, just weapons.
Ukraine: oh for fucks sake.
We super promise we won’t invade Moscow.
Is that good enough for you?
Can we please get on with this?
The short version is the war is it the fault of the West, NATO or the USA.
Putin has been wanting this for a long time.
Ukraine was the most closely integrated portion of the USSR to break away.
And it suffered the most intense corruption and other associated issues.
But it has made tremendous progress.
But that progress has infuriated the Kremlin because it means it is more independent.
The years of using energy as a means to control Kiev waned.
And yeah, Moscow forgave a lot of energy debt.
But then Kiev went and grew economically.
It tossed out leadership who were not on the up and up.
Every administration was better Than the one before.
Zelenskyy was not a particularly effective peace time leader.
There was discontent and all sorts of things.
Russia sensed a moment and seized it.
Turns out Zelenskyy is a great wartime leader, a patriot who really is seeking to free his nation.
As it is, the cost of this thing has fallen overwhelmingly in Ukrainian shoulders.
They are spilling their blood.
Their cities are being wiped from the map.
This matter to them.
And it is they who are destabilizing the Kremlin; a thorn in the side of the global community for 20 years.