There is only one superpower, and it isn’t China.
As the other poster said China is a regional military power and maybe an emerging economic superpower if you want to be very generous.
Because I can tell you need it spelled out, based on your nasty reply below….
The US is a superpower, it has a stupid amount of military force and putting aside Pentagon fundraising pressers, no one else is even close.
This is possible because despite having a population of about a 25% of China’s, the US has nearly double the GDP.
The US has a population of about 350 million, and a GDP of between $20tn-$30tn depending on how you measure it.
China has a population of 1.4 billion, and a GDP of about $14tn according to the last reliable figures, or about $17tn if you have an unusual amount of faith in the CCP.
The US has 11 nuclear powered supercarriers, with more combined deck space than every other carrier of every other nation on Earth… twice over, and they’re building more.
China has 1 retrofitted Soviet-era diesel carrier with a “ski jump” deck, one domestically produced diesel aircraft carrier, and another on the way.
Now we could get into other types of naval craft, we could get into satellites, land forces, and experience in shooting wars, but I think the aircraft carrier example is the easiest to get at a glance.
Disclaimer: Because I know how social media is, I’m not American, this isn’t me swinging dick, it’s just analysis.
If there's one thing we've learned over the past year, weapons don't win wars, money does, and China sure owns a whole lot of U.S. debt.
It can seem nice from the outside to point and look at a carrier and say, that's a superpower, meanwhile China has essentially invaded every aspect of the U.S. without needing to fire a bullet.
This will all become insanely apparent once China moves into Taiwan next year.
They own a bit less than a trillion dollars of US debt, that’s insignificant for a country with the GDP that the US has.
Would it suck if it all came due at once?
Sure, but the US could tank it, while China would become a lender of last resort.
Who wants to sell bonds to a country that will weaponize it that way?
As far as invading Taiwan, China might be able to pull it off, but not without insane losses and the destruction of Taiwan’s semiconductor industry.
Meanwhile China has bigger fish to fry with a damaged economy and unprecedented protests against the failed Zero Covid policy.
That is not a position of strenh, especially when they just watched Russia make a similar move and fail spectacularly.