In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I would not say everyone is a journalist in 2023 just that we have a problem with full grown adults not actually having their brain mature past a certain age.
The internet has brought to light that a good many people are asshats, not journalists.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Problem is they don’t know what is in the balloons.
There could potentially be some type of biological/chemical agent in them that we don’t want released on US soil.
It could be dangerous to just shoot it down.
In 2023 we are all journalists, our words spread and our words matter.
I kind of feel like the comments from the person who posted this article doesn't know anything more than we do, but her/his words could contribute towards inflaming the situation.
The fun part is China straight up said it’s civilian and is doing lame ass weather stuff.
So, if China is playing ball and not trying to cause WW3 and if USA retrieves it then what?
Well China is the new boogeyman.
Best way to keep story time going is to keep telling the story.
Republicans have no problem looking like idiots or making things worse.
Does the USA lie about it or does it say, “Well, looks like it’s a weather balloon.
Just like all the other ones because surveillance balloons haven’t been used for 80 fucking years.
USA 1 !”.
Meh, whatever.
Could also be doing space stuff too.
Someone mentioned ground penetrating radar so that's a neat idea.
Republicans have no problem looking like idiots.
The military though, they try to stay professional.
Seriously, find one article that has picture of the balloon with "Evil Surveillance Balloon, made in China" painted on the side.
They should have given much more detail and evidence though.
Just to calm down the Republicans.
I think they are having trouble tracking the info down though.
I wonder if there is some research team that let a balloon up and now they are afraid of the publicity.
I mean if the USA needed to find out which people launched a weather balloon in the past month would they also be in a similar situation trying to find out who's it is?
I would assume a person would have to file a flight plan.
The military could have had the balloon in their possession like 1 hour after confirmation when they saw it heading towards Alaska a week ago.
This didn’t even make the news until it was spotted in Montana by civilians and they took pictures.
As for tracking down the people that launched it all I really know is there is a lot more people in China than USA so maybe that takes time.
The trip was rumor.
There was no official date set.
Chinese officials were never notified when The Number 3 would arrive.
So for them there was no trip to cancel.
So, now he has to wait for the balloon to get recovered and confirm it’s a weather balloon.
And for the next Republican distraction.
Also optics.
Democrats care way too much about optics.
They are worried about WWRD (what would Republicans do) if The Secretary Of State was paling around in China while the United States of America is under immediate threat of a Chinese… balloon.
Yeah, politics and optics.
Fox News Propaganda would have content for weeks.
I don't really know but keep in mind that China sees the Secretary of State as really super important.
99% of Americans could care less but for Chinese politicians it's a really high position.
The Chinese government should most definitely have released more info.
It’s their balloon.
It’s their fuck up.
This is one weather balloon.
The 2nd one while Biden is in office.
After 3 while Trump was in office.
The 6th was last seen in Columbia.
We are hearing about this one because someone took video and pics of it and the news picked it up.
The other one floating around right now didn’t.
Neither did the 3 under Trump or the first one under Biden.
Keep that in mind when I ask, Why do you care about this one?
It wasn’t shot down because it’s not a threat.
Shoot it down and it becomes a threat.
This is the only reason why it hasn’t been shot down by the military.
Biden didn’t shoot it down because he’s not Trump.
Shooting it down is a small threat but it’s a threat increase for nothing worthwhile gained.
If we wanted to vaporize it with a MOAB we could.
They could sell tickets so people could watch.
The military saw it coming.
It didn’t make the news until someone in Montana saw it and took a picture.
They could have shot it down before it hit Alaska.
Yup.
Now you are getting to the meat and potatoes.
The balloon is not the problem.
China not communicating is the problem.
Keep in mind though it’s kinda stupid easy for anyone to just launch a big ass balloon without proper officials being notified.
Also keep it mind it's a fucking weather balloon that most mentally mature people fully grasp the not-possibility of a balloon starting WW3.
Last I heard they are going to shoot it down over the Atlantic and hope it can survive sea water.
Some reports say it seems kinda new tech so there might be some interested in recovering it and not just to confirm that it was counting CO2 molecules.
I was hoping it would make to to Europe.
Who knows what is inside the balloons.
There could be biological/chemical agents in there v that we don’t want on US soil.
The military would obviously be super cautious about shooting something like that down.