Pakistan has different factions controlling it.
There is the legitimate government, then there are factions within the army each seeking power and then there is the ISI(Pak spy agency) which also seeks power.
Some factions are pro US and get US weapons.
Some are pro Taliban and see them as a weapon to spread islamic power.
Some factions want control over Kashmir and send terrorists.
Additionally all these factions funded militias and terrorists groups as weapons against internal and external enemies.
India is their primary focus but for example they use them against Afghanistan because they view any independent afghan government as one that could ally with India and thus a threat.
They were warned that creating these militias and terrorists groups would backfire because they ultimately didn’t like their own government either and were being given the tools to overthrow it.
It's interesting being from a western background how I am used to the military being under one roof but so many of the middle eastern countries have these rivaling factions within the same army.
How is unity even possible when its so fractured.
That's why in the 1971 war with India, Pak attacked with two divisions of tanks and 4 companies of infantry failed to take an out post defended by 120 Indian soldiers and 2 AT guns.
Their air force asked the gov to warn them early before the operation so that they can prepare the air fields.
However the complications in the chain of command failed to notify on time and the invasion had to be done without air cover.
Later on Tanks got stuck in the sand and only 2 managed to reach the frontlines.
Half the men deserted after the initial confrontation.
One of the CO of the 4 company refused to attack when orders came from above.
Having separate military groups that don't operate under a single authority and compete with one another over funding and influence, is a god way to prevent a military coup.
No, it maybe better to say there’s very few groups that see themselves as afghans and not their tad their local tribes.
And Pashtuns are the largest group but they aren’t a majority(42%) with a large grouping of Pashtuns in pakistan.
Well they have been trying that all their life aren't they?
No PM ever completed their full terms.
Two coups and subsequent military rule etc etc etc.
And to top it all up the terrorists TTP and balochs are now active against Pakistan since the US has left.
The chickens come home to roost.
They were warned about this and did it anyway.
Now that the Taliban won, pakistan holds a lot of Pashtun land… past the Durand line….
Anyone could’ve warned them the Taliban would immediately start funding the pakistan Taliban to take it back….
Pakistan didn’t do much nation building after the war and could basically be split up into 5ish seperate countries.
Punjabis are the biggest ethnic group and many of them moved to pakistan during the partition.
Pashtuns inhabit the regions bordering Afghanistan.
Meanwhile Afghanistan as an entity was basically more akin to a dark ages monarchy.
The monarch “ruled” the country, but outside of Kabul it was more like the tribes paid fealty to the king but did their own thing, so we now have this political entity that is composed of a ton of tribes that don’t get along.