The ratio is skewed to the point, local woman needs the man to earn huge and offer housing, lavish life as well.
The ones can't provide will run towards brothel or start conducting crime due to sexual repression.
These sort of thing are a nightmare for any country.
The Chinese culture is that they opt to have a son so that he could take care of them when they are old, it's in their culture.
Depends on the perspective, but overall bad for the country as a whole.
The economy and many other facets of a country are tied to population.
To have a aging population of billions of people, no longer able to work and retiring, without a sufficient influx of new, younger and able bodied replacements to sustain the country’s production, cover the social safety net costs, etc.
means that things can fall apart very fast.
China’s one child policy will end up doing a lot of long term damage to the country.
Even though they have rescinded it and encourage people to have more now, the damage is done.
Not only from the years it was in effect, but because it changed the mindset of the people who now like the flexibility and other benefits of only having one, or no, child.
One very interesting consequence of the one-child policy is that it promoted individualism and to some degree, gender equality.
While lots of girls were killed in infanticides, there were also a lot of them who were the only child of their family.
Without a brother who their parents would spoil, they would receive the full attention of their parents, get educated, and get into a job out of necessity.
This meant a reduction of housewives and an increase in the portion of women working, which lead to increased gender equality compared to the previous generation.
I think as a result, some studies actually claim the Chinese are more used to a female boss in workplace compared to Koreans and the Japanese.
Absolutely, and what I was referring to with my "depends on the perspective" preface, but was typing on my iPhone and didn't want to go to into the weeds on that one.
But yeah, the one-child policy definitely had significant benefits for the individuals and families.
It allowed the parents to focus on a single child, putting all their energy into helping them succeed (and China has a very, very competitive school system), which means they were more likely to boost performance, even out the playing field between the genders, save money, have more free time, etc.
etc.
It worked out so well that families got used to the benefits, which means they don't want to have more than one child now, in many cases, even when they can.
And only children raised under it witnessed the advantages first hand.
It changed the entire family dynamic over a couple generations and now they are stuck with it -- outside of mandating 2-3 kids per family at the government level.
At the end of the day, the population growth pre-policy in China was unsustainable.
For a variety of reasons.
So something had to be done.
And I'm not sure what the perfect answer would have been.
But by having an inverted pyramid right now on the population/age demographic chart, it is going to be a very rough ride economically for China and the people living there.
Economy, ageing populace need Healthcare.
How do you provide health care to 60% of the ageing populace.
Many other countries have a similar problem, albeit not at that scale or for the same reasons.
Shrinking native population, most people entering retirement, etc.
Productive members of society only fall into the, roughly, 20-60 year old age bracket.
Younger/older ones don't produce, they consume resources.
So even jump starting a major birthing initiative could push things over the edge in the short term even quicker.
The other countries in this predicament will usually import a solution, by encouraging immigration to fill in the gaps.
But, China being China, that isn't necessarily going to work.
At least for skilled labor.
Not a stupid question at all, but it is a very complex one.
Standard answer is that it's bad.
Less people equals less demand and less growth, which means the economy starts to stagnate and then deteriorate.
It also means that your population is getting older, and so less productive and more costly to maintain.
Think a town full of 80 years olds - their ability to look after their surroundings or even themselves is far less than a town full of 30 year olds, and they have greater needs such as healthcare whilst having less ability to produce and provide those needs.
There's possibly an alternative to this deterioration, and Japan might be the best place to find out (as their population peaked a bit over a decade ago), but it would need some careful management by various levels of government and some heavy duty social security structures.
I'm not sure whether China scores highly on either of those measures, probably not.
It could be a long period of internal instability ahead for China once the population decline really bites.
Countries have been known to deal with internal difficulties by going to war with other countries.
I was at a conference recently where the speaker was doing some rough calculations on the likely death toll in China.
They posited that when you factor in poor critical care capability, very low natural immunity, a vaccine which does not work on currently prevalent variants (and much of the population unvaccinated in any case), an aging population (many of whom live in rural areas and have limited access to health care), and then a reopening process happening in weeks rather than the months elsewhere after a majority of the populations were vaccinated or had already had it... well you end up with a number that is circa 15 to 20 million, low end.