In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
As an Iowan, I get that the influence of the first primary should go to a state that's more representative of the overall electorate.
But why give that influence to a state that hasn't voted for a Democrat since Carter?
It appears that no matter how much they like a candidate, SC democrats don't have the numbers to bring in their electoral votes.
The first primary should go to a state whose preference could swing the election, not the one that saved the current president's primary bacon.
It favors centrist Dems which I guess some could argue will give a boost to the most electable candidates but I agree with you.
Dems need to motivate young people skeptical about politics and the optics of moves like this doesn’t help.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
No argument from me.
Really we could keep the system we have now and expand the house of rep. to one rep for every 30,000 people (as described by the founders) and since the number of house representatives determines the number of electoral votes it would give populous states the voting percentage they actually deserve in the presidential election as well as the influence they are being cheated out of in the house.
If we threw out the election rigging gimmick that is the electoral college, which shifts an undue amount of attention to less populated / relevant “battleground states” rather than throughout our entire country.
A vote for a Democrat or Republican vote in a battle ground state is much more valuable than 10,000 democratic or Republican Votes in Texas, NY, Florida or California where the outcome is pre determined.
The system is rigged when a candidate can lose by 3 million votes nation wide gets to be President because of a total 20,000 votes split between in rural counties and gerrymandered congressional districts.