>Belarus's National Assembly approved in two readings on December 14 a bill that allows authorities to strip citizenship from anyone, including native Belarusians, for extremism.
The current law allows only naturalized citizens to be deprived of their citizenship if convicted of extremist activities.
Authorities have labeled numerous independent media outlets, NGOs, journalists, and bloggers as extremists in the wake of mass protests that gripped the country following an August 2020 presidential vote that handed the authoritarian ruler Alyaksandr Lukashenka a sixth term in office despite opposition claims the election was rigged.
Another country under full dictatorship and the fall of Putin would bring down Alexander Lukashenko as well because he is the only one keeping Alexander Lukashenko in power.
I just want to see these people have the freedom they deserve.
I have been to Belarus and the people deserve better.
My point is it’s time to stop watching it happen and start using everything we have to fight it.
The world should be shouting in unison that what’s happening in places like Belarus and Iran and many other places isn’t acceptable.
That we won’t tolerate the right wing fascist creep there and will fight it to its end in our own countries.
Oh, Jesus that’s horrifying.
Anywhere you look right now pretty much shit is not good and people are suffering and being threatened for wanting freedom.
Not to minimize the personal experience of the Belarusians and what’s happening to them because they have it worse than most countries but it’s infecting every part of the globe and today Belarus seems like a place where this kind of things happens and far from places like the US, Canada and western Europe and the truth is right wing extremism is hovering over us, waiting for the moment it can seize any power to make our lives as miserable as possible.
They aren’t implementing anything in Belarus that they aren’t telling us all everyday they can’t wait to do in many democratic countries all over.
The world needs a revolution and let’s not wait until the camps are built to stand up and make good trouble.
Where are they supposed to go after their citizenship is stripped from them?
Wander over borders and hope someone will let them crash in their country?
I don’t understand what it is the government is trying to do by using citizenship as it’s threat rather than the usual threats of imprisonment, torture and/or killed.
I don’t think I have fully understood how critical it is that Putin is stopped and put out of power.
This fight isn’t just a fight for Ukraine, although the Ukrainian people are the priority at this point, it’s a fight for freedom loving countries from all over Europe and the UK to Canada and the US.
This authoritarian creep is happening everywhere and we all have these radical right wing parties and the have large support with many of our citizens because they’ve been inundated with propaganda and have very loud and outrageous leaders that have control over vital resources like social media platforms or popular podcasters and influencers that have a huge following of angry young men that never leave their rooms or computers and are angry they can’t attract women so they will hate them and agree the whole democracy thing needs to be burned down to put women back in their place.
Things like Qanon crept across the US like a wildfire and people in places like Australia and the UK are falling right along with the Americans into the rabbit hole even though it’s happening in America and mainly about American government and politicians.
It’s like it doesn’t matter what outrage they are selling, these people are 100% jumping on the outrage train even if it’s got nothing to do with their own country or the subject matter is blatantly ridiculous and obviously just nonsense being spun from the most unreliable sources.
Russia has been a huge part of this, their troll farms are massively effective and have been reproduced in the other counties, especially the US.
I know the American right wing has been working with Putin for a while now and I see many leaders in the other countries being caught red handed with financial or business dealings with the Russian government or oligarchs.
I wonder if beating Russia into its borders and the fall of Putin is even enough to stop what has already spread everywhere else.