FYI, we don't know what variant of the Sea Kings are being sent.
Nobody has mentioned the anti-submarine version, although it is possible.
That requires the dipping sonar etc.
All that said, it would make sense to give the Ukrainians that capability since it's clearly something they need since the Russian surface fleet is no longer a threat.
The news report says the SAR version but that doesn't make a whole lot of sense, given that Ukraine isn't flying many sorties over the coast due to Russian SAM coverage from Crimea.
Other countries have weapons like Exocet integrated on Sea Kings but again, doesn't offer much they don't already have from coastal Harpoon batteries.
Same goes for ASW varieties, heli's won't be able to chase subs out far enough.
What would be interesting is the Crowsnest AEW versions that the Royal Navy had, that could potentially really help Ukraine with countering drones and cruise missiles.
Of course it could just be a basic version being given for ferrying troops about.
You can't attach money value to human live but still, Russia had better pay lots and lots of reparations when this is over.
Jesus fuck... Do they have no sense of guilt or shame?!
This almost makes me want to vomit.. A family that was just fully made... came undone..
The pain and grief the poor parents feel..
I understand their pain.
I wish nothing more other than just castrating the Russian soldiers and a sweet rush hour of falling out the windows.
More than 350 churches were searched by the Ukranian secret service to investigate possible links with the Kremlin.
The kremlin speaks of "goddless and immoral acts" (as opposed to their godly and very moral genocide in Ukraine).
Putin spoke of the "destruction of the Russian-Orthodox church in Ukraine" and used it as another ad hoc justifications for the "special military operation".
AFAIK from info and conversations this thread has, Putin just thinks he can do the same thing as Stalin did, reform the USSR despite it crashing down back in '91.
I wish we knew his true intentions.
Some say he wants the natural resources, some say he wants to wipe Ukrainians away and replace them with Russians.
I don't know.
Not even the neutral russians know.
Nobody knows who or what to believe as it's easy to get lost thanks to Putin's yes men.
Hell if I know.
I'm only just barely below the average age of being even considered to be a conscript.
I'm just experiencing so many emotions that I want to just angrily bash someone down.
Fucking hell, if he didn't start thinking of Wanting to obliterate Ukraine to smitherenes, we'd actually live great!