Nah, a war with the Chinese would primarily be aircraft/missile oriented due to the distance between the US and China.
While China has some nice missiles they just aren't there with planes, their most stealthy jet really isn't that stealthy at all much like Russia's stealth planes.
They are probably a decade away from replicating a plane like the F-22 and by that point the F-22 will be over 30 years old.
God knows what kind of aircraft the US has hidden still if we make public these aircraft with radar signatures the size of mosquitos.
It's all posturing and politics right now.
lots of stuff can also be done with simulations too, without a physical enemy.
so the good guys can still do the actual maneuvers and deployments but weapons systems and targets arent live its just digital pew pews.
There’s usually a unit or, in more recent years a contract company, that plays the ‘bad guy’ role with aircraft that mimic the performance of enemy aircraft, often (but not always) using known tactics and doctrine of the potential enemy.
> "Now, that does not mean that he's decided to conduct an invasion in 2027, or any other year, but it's a reminder of the seriousness of his focus and his ambition," Burns told an event at Georgetown University in Washinon.
That's all nice but when stealth jets and bombers can come obliterate your manufacturing industry then you can't manufacture.
The US has tons of manufacturing capacity that can be switched to a war footing if it was ever necessary and the biggest threats to it would be Chinese missiles.
They definitely couldn't get planes over the continental US to conduct strikes but we could do so to them.
The US has unmatched intelligence capabilities as well so we know exactly where to hit.
Not saying a war with them would be easy but it would definitely not be beneficial for them either and the point of a war is to gain something.
ya theres no way the US doesnt have secret tech.
they havent had to flex the new new, they havent needed to show anything off when the current gen shit is still ahead of everyone else.
and why show off ur new toys, if nobody else has figured it out or if nobody else is even working on it you might just give them an idea they never had.