In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Lmao it will be like in the movie version of The Time Machine where the moon breaks up and reduces us to subterranean cannibal creatures and canyon dwelling Neanderthals.
An incredibly rare isotope of hydrogen here on Earth, which is relatively abundant on the moon (collected by the moon from solar winds striking its surface).
And it is a component in a nuclear fusion fuel that creates the most energetic and least radioactive byproducts (in fact the fuel is mildly radioactive, and the byproduct comes out as stable helium) .
If we could collect it and start transporting it to Earth, we could solve nuclear fusion, global warming, and global energy shortages all at once.
Funny thing is, for Tritium at least, that wouldn't work.
The Tritium exists at the top meter or two, because it is generated by the interaction between the lunar regolith and the particles in the solar wind.
You have to preserve and keep refreshing the surface in order for it to collect more material later.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
No.
Fusion power is not the Silver Bullet for Climate Change, at best it is the future-proofing solution for it, because reliable fusion power is still a couple decades away.
People who say that we should wait for fusion instead of investing in solar and wind are effectively giving the fossil fuel industry cover.
Solar and wind power are robust and tested technologies that are ready to be deployed now, fusion is the technology that will take up the slack when we run out of square footage for solar and wind in the last half of the century.
Prior to the 19th century petroleum was known about and processes for refining and using it was known.
It's refined byproducts were known to be superior to animal and vegetable oils as fuel... but it was too expensive to refine and procure at scale.
Then thanks to a couple of technological advances in the 1840's industrial scale drilling and refining became possible, and within three decades exploded to eclipse the whale oil harvesting, putting the industrial slaughter of whales for their oil out of business.