In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Addiction medicine certification used to just be a test you could sit for after practicing, study, and attending training courses.
Now the specialization requires a 1-2 year long fellowship, meaning fewer docs will be boarded and thus fewer able to prescribe for more than 30 people a month.
from the first time i did heroin there was nothing at all that could alleviate my need for it - it felt like a necessary part of my life like food or sleep.
i can testify first hand that buprenorphine obliterated my cravings for opiates and allowed me to get enough time under my belt to get my life together.
not sure how it is now, but back when i quit (over 15 years now) i could score hydromorphone for about $2 a pill but buprenorphine was like $25 a pill and hard af to find.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What's worse is it has been made more difficult to get prescription privileges.
Docs can get a X-waiver that lets them write for 30 people a month and to be able to write for more they are phasing in addiction medicine specialization requirements.
Its still like $20 at its lowest on GoodRX, average is $300 for a months supply for those without insurance.
There are also programs that hand it out, but that depends on the area.
when i last kicked H i was fortunately in LA where bup/nar/sub are all pretty readily available at most pharmacies - and cost about a dollar a dose iirc.
pro tip: if filling a script for opioid-treatment (suboxone, et al) try to stay clear of any big name Rx in favor of smaller local pharmacies - thank me later.
Idk if they still do this but back in the day smaller pharmacies would sell suboxone scripts like dealers to people without insurance.
If I had a script for 60 I could buy all 60 @ $3 or 30 @$6 and so on down to a single running $15-20.
But once they had the script it was locked in at that pharmacy and you were paying on the scale to get the rest.
It had its benefits but felt fucking shady.
On the flipside, buprenorphine never took my desire to use away.
Either did methadone.
About all it ever did was give me a free source of income to trade out for dope.
So while it works for some it doesn't work for all.
Big Pharma isn't going to be the sole savior that will get us out of the problem they created but they're pushing hard for suboxone based treatment leading the way.
Its pretty evident that they favor buprenorphine over naltrexone because its more profitable for them long term.
Opioid replacement is in direct conflict with the abstinence based treatment model at most the centers using it.
Naltrexone fits that model and is arguably just as if not more successful than replacement but its harder to get access to.
But anyway, congrats on getting clean.
There is no model for the recovering addict, I welcome whatever works for the individual because this is life and death.