It is pretty amazing how as soon as humanity achieved a point where they could have excess food from agriculture, they went straight to fermenting and getting drunk.
There are lots of theories that basically say that civilization was created to necessitate the wider production of alcohol, and not the other way around.
And it makes sense.
Remember, farming must've sucked back then.
Everything is manual, and food now is not what food was back then.
Want an apple?
Well tough shit, they hadn't been selectively bred yet, you idiot.
Enjoy this sour ass tiny, hard ball with the same nutrition as your toenails.
Want to bake some bread?
What, you want to make food out of Aegilops tauschii?
That spikey grass the goats eat?
Well it's winter, and it's all dead, so good luck with that, loser.
Alcohol is not like the other things that were traded at that time.
When you bought alcohol, you bought in bulk, and you bought regularly, and of course every tribe of man and their dogs were manufacturing vessels for holding liquids up the wazzoo.
Meaning the market even back then were significant.
Of course to meet demand you'd have to scale up, which requires a workforce to work the fields and make the product, which requires homes, services, and food and water to sustain them.
Not to mention a militia to defend this stuff.
At that point, the guy in charge of the operation is in effect a grain or rice king.
All he needs to do is invent some rain god and bam, he's a god king.
But regardless of how shite growing food was back then, everything still fermented exactly the same.
There are theories that state civilization as a concept was invented in order to have reliable access to alcohol.
In other words getting lit predates the earliest known permanent human settlements.
From there, the work force start having children, and the people will demand more goods to give meaning to their lives, and bam again, before you know it, you're running a city state with several self sustaining industries trading with other city states founded on the same ideas.
Once you have an alcohol producing state in the region, this allows other city states to spring up that don't have to specialize in producing alcohol because it's cheaper and less effort to just trade, say, copper or iron for it.
Bada-bing, bada-boom you have a trade network, and dependencies set up.
That is basically a functioning civilization right there.
Everyone talks about mummies, but the real horror enthusiast knows that the Aztecs and the Mesopotamians are the two civs you don’t want to fuck around with.