Yeah it’s like genetically proven that some cultures have bad points of view that actively work against their own self interest.
Look at Britney Spears.
All what you said is true...
But you are only looking at disadvantages... China's authoritarian politics allowed it to slide up from being one of the poorest countries to become the world's second largest economy.
The happily non-democratic countries are where modern day slavery is occuring.
But you know that cause you are so knowledgable.
I really want to know which supreme leader's dick you are on.
MBS?
Kim Jong?
No no I'm sure it's one of those african countries, Eswatini?
Or it could be Erdogan, but he started by being elected democratically before becoming supreme leader.
Oh I got it.
That guy from Syria is doing a bang up job as supreme leader.
Please do the world a favor and go back to r/conspiracy.
The big kids play here, you might get your feelings hurt.
I think this person had the correct idea in what they said, but there's a lot of nuance to break down to make it make sense.
I think the simplest way to explain is to say this 'better' or 'good' are not objective terms.
If they meant 'autocracies sometimes lower overall violence and stabilize society' then they are correct, with the caveats that this decrease in overall violence almost always comes with an increase in state-sponsored violence, whether through official law or through ignored corruption among government security forces.
It is unfortunate that many countries in the world today would be unlikely to become or stay democracies if their autocratic rulers were overthrown or even peacefully abdicated.
That usually means that civil wars, internal strife, and increased instability will occur and likely cause a lot of suffering, injury, and death among the populace, when after all is said and done the conclusion is more likely than not to be some form of autocratic government taking power again.
That doesn't mean that it isn't worth trying or supporting democratic movements, just showing that with a narrow view pointed toward 'less overall suffering, instability, and death right now' autocratic governments can be seen as a net positive.
It is not about population...China was also the most populated country in the past but only recently with strong authoritarianism did they become an economic superpower...
Throughout most of thir history they were very poor and constantly in starvation conditions.