Bibi accepting extremists into his coalition to avoid corruption charges, Abbas likely dying of old age soon without any successor, and Hamas increasingly having a presence in the West Bank.
Good fucking luck, Blinken.
I guess they’re just waiting until either side has their own Anwar Sadat.
Until then, they mostly just want to avoid war with many casualties.
At this point, the Biden administration (and pretty much most governments in the world) accept that neither side is willing to make the politically explosive concessions necessary for a peace deal.
For example, the Palestinians would likely need to give up their right of return, and Israel would need to give up many settlements and more.
I am not sure the PA/PLO is able to make any compromises.
None of their leaders can accept a deal that gives them any less than arafat rejected.
In addition the Palestinians have consistently refused numerous offers of a state.
As far as I can tell, they Palestinians have never compromised on any of their demands.
I expect they will get a state eventually, but it will be so long until they agree, it will be a fragment of what they could have had.
And then there is the other issue, that they have been unwilling to agree to the Israeli requirement that any agreement be the end of all claims.
i.e The Palestinians cannot come back 10 years after a signed agreement and say they also want A,B,C.
This is a major problem for them, as many Palestinians see an agreement with Israel as just a first step in reclaiming all of Palestine.
As they regularly say - From the river (i.e.
Jordan River) to the sea (i.e.
mediterranean sea) Palestine will be free.
i.e.
no more Israel.
Yep.
Unfortunately it seems like a demographic issue as well.
Current Israeli adults have predominantly lost trust in Palestinian leadership due to the intifadas plus the growing share of Haredim as a % of population.
Will require some buffer time until (hopefully) the voter base has replenished with people who have not experienced intifadas.
Similarly, Palestinian youth are increasingly affiliating themselves with Islamist groups (Hamas, PIJ, etc.)
rather than secular groups.
While I have plenty of criticism for the PLO/PA, at the very least they are ideologically able to make compromises and less tied up in religious absolutism.
(not to mention that Hamas and the PA can't agree on very much, and that Even if Israel were willing to meet all the demands of the PA, Abbas isn't really a legitimate leader, being in the 19th year of his 4 year presidential term....).
That said, the modern PA has made some compromises with Israel.
Not in terms of a lasting peace plan or anything major, but they do generally (outside of particularly large flare-ups like this month) cooperate with Israel on day-to-day matters like minor civil things, taxation, and even limited security cooperation.