For China, it's ideological to a very large extent.
Putin's "multipolar world" appeals to the Chinese mindset and their own view of themselves in the world - since the USSR fell, the world has been a unipolar one: The US leads, everyone else follows, because there is no real challenger to the US hegemony.
Russia is nowhere near the threat the USSR was (and now even less so), and while China has been building up economically and militarily, it's practically surrounded by US allies, something they definitely don't appreciate, especially now that they're by many accounts a near-peer to the US.
China wants what Russia is selling: a world where the US needs to come to the negotiating table with China (and Russia), and negotiate not from a position of strenh as the de-facto ruling hegemon, but as a peer.
Slice up the world into spheres of influence again, and go back to the status quo ante the fall of the USSR, except now with a far more economically open China in its place.
I don't think China will threaten its geopolitical strategic position to aid Russia in their Ukrainian ambitions, but they will absolutely try their best to keep Russia and Putin's multipolar world vision alive and well.
For them, there's also a bit of a Taiwan ideology going on that gives them a good reason to give with one hand and take with the other: Taiwan is China, and territorial integrity is paramount for China, so they're using that to support Ukraine's sovereignty.
Remember: Russia's logic to getting Crimea and the Donbas is due to separatist movements in these regions - which one could argue (if they're fairly blind and devoid of nuance) parallels Taiwan.
China does not want any credibility to be given to Taiwan's separatism.
This is also why China is pushing for peace publicly so much.
They want to be seen as the grownup at the table that stopped this war and got the world back to a stable position.
This would give them a good amount of soft power with the Global South, regions that have been disproportionally affected by the Russo-Ukrainian war and have expressed no support for Russia nor NATO, having good reason to distrust both spheres of influence.
Also regions where China has been trying to build bridges with their One Belt One Road initiative.
But that's not OPs point, they're just pointing out that the separatist narrative is problematic to China because of the (bad) parallels to Taiwan.