"Just a month before his 20th birthday, Mr. Santos entered a small clothing store in the Brazilian city of Niterói outside Rio de Janeiro.
He spent nearly $700 using a stolen checkbook and a false name, court records show.
Mr. Santos admitted the fraud to the shop owner in August 2009, writing on Orkut, a popular social media website in Brazil, “I know I screwed up, but I want to pay.” In 2010, he and his mother told the police that he had stolen the checkbook of a man his mother used to work for, and used it to make fraudulent purchases.
".
Can we put it past him?
I don't think we can.
He has loed about virtually everything.
Hes lied about his work history, and his heritage.
He claims to be gay and normally I'd believe him.
But until last week we didn't know that he was married to a woman.
So is he gay or just lying for clout?
I think its a fair question.
I am a gay man myself and I am questioning if he is actually gay.
I understand the pressure to be heterosexual.
I come from a Catholic background I know.
If it was any other person I wpuld think he married a woman because he didn't want to be gay.
I did not either.
If the Republicans had any sort of ethics left, they'd demand this guy step down.
Depending on the state, they may even get to select their fill-in candidate?
This seems to be a question that no-one in the USA seems terribly interested in pursuing.
Is this guy actually a citizen?
And if so, was the basis of his application honest?
Truthfully, this one wasn't projection, it's just the act of not caring when it's potentially about their guy.
Why isn't it projection?
It's too small and distant from the last.
There's no reason to project this far ahead for such an insignificant individual, there's plenty of worthless lying legal citizens they could have chosen if he turns out not to be a legal citizen.
Generally, I find projection to come from either a guilty conscious or a tactical decision (e.g.
you know something has high potential to leak, so you muddy the waters by accusing the others first, lessoning the attention when your group's story does leak).
One of my friends joked we have to see his birth certificate and he was clearly referencing the ridiculous Obama birther conspiracy theory.
I think he got away with it because of how big his lies are.
I think most people expect politicians to lie.
If he had jist told a few small fibs about his past voters could forgive him but this goes beyond that.
This case is so bizarre that I think its hard to imagine for most people that someone would go this far with their lies.
You can be extradited for any crime as far as I know.
Some countries may refuse on humanitarian grounds, if the accused faces the death penalty.
Identity theft and $700 in fraud may not merit extradition, but if he is tried in absentia, he may have to serve the time in an American prison.
Depends on how important relations are with Brazil.
He is saying that he didn't lie about Goldman Sachs and Citigroup he just used a poor choice of words.
His new story is that the company he was working for worked with those companies and thats wherw the confusion is from.
The interesting thing is that you are right and even while he is supposedly apologizing and coming clean he is still being dishonest.
That is an easily disprovable lie.
He absolutely did claim to work for those companies.
For one of the two, i cant remember if it was Goldman Sachs or Citigroup, he described in detail the position he allegedly held at the company.
It was very specific.
Its in that initial NY Times article.
Even when he is supposedly apologizing he is still lying.
He has lied about stuff like his mom dying in 9/11 and his employees being killed at the Pulse nightclub shooting.
I don't know why Republicans wont toss him.
He'd be an unreliable ally.
If they asked him if he supports some bill they want how could they actually trust he is telling the truth?