Environmental justice won't come without economic justice.
Economic justice can't come with the amount of special interests entrenched in our political systems.
To excise them we need national strikes that shut down and destroy national economies.
Do the people have the will to do this?
Probably not.
I mean that it sounds like it will create problems eventually.
When you say 'economic model', what do you mean?
Are you referring to the intentions of some or all groups?
some ideology?
Or are you referring to an error and chain of problems due to greed, for which nations need healing rather than farther bouts of destruction.
Is that what Capitalism does?
That system seems to shuffle goods and half-goods around.
It's Greed that sets out to fixate on a single parameter.
Without that, 'Capitalism' would be different.
Yes, profit is expected (due to coordination within market dynamics; essentially teamwork).
That's supposed to get reinvested (R&D).
Such a system is not problematic.
Greed clouds the eyes, drives the person to push for 'profit in spite of everything else,' and leaves them subject to tilting and falling and chasing imbalance.
That's what prevents teamwork; circumvents research and development; creates violence and disparities and poverty and other details you may be critical of.
If we're trying to avoid systemic collapse, we need to stop making the post-collapse world seem so fucking cool, because otherwise everybody's just going to be paying lip-service to saving the environment, while low-key wondering how hard it would be to build a after the power grid fails.
Every year people say the sky is falling, and now everybody's bored with the message.
An individual's efforts are just pissing in the wind, the corporations and governments that could manage these things at scale aren't going to step up and do so, so now everybody's pretty much like, "Meh, shit's fucked.
Either make the folks who can make changes make the changes, or don't, but stop lecturing us about what kind of straw to use and how to water our lawns, because that shit does not matter.
".
Worse yet, Hollywood has made the Apocalypse look fucking awesome for the most part.
With the exception of The Road, pretty much every post apocalyptic movie makes it seem like if you survive the initial mass die-off, you get to enjoy a world of high-speed vehicles, cool guns, beautiful women, survivable violence, and not having a day job.
We have went from historically open woodlands to closed canopy forest with almost no structure, food or cover to support many species due to fire suppression.
The riverbanks are washing away with every flood due to people clearing the shrubs and trees right up to the rivers edge.
The water levels are shallower and wider.
All across this country.
All the native prairies just about have been converted to fescue or bermuda grass.
No good for wildlife.
Almost all bird species are in major decline.
Many reptile populations, bee populations, small mammals, the list goes on and on.