Wow.
Over 100,000 Russian combat deaths so far since February.
For comparison, the US had 58,000 combat deaths during the entire Vietnam War.
How are the Russian People not completely rebelling at this point?
!
What you can’t change, you have to accept, and they believe they can’t change it and I don’t judge them for it.
It’s easy for us to say what we would do, but living there is different !
Getting the truth doesn't anger any "superiors".
Nobody's watching over your shoulder you when you read news on PC or phone.
They are nationalists and proud of their country and don’t want to fight the regime for their lives….
It's not about getting the truth.
Russian Federation is not People's Republic North Korea (yet).
Everyone has a smartphone, everyone has computer and internet.
There's even no "great firewalls" unlike China or Turkey or whatever.
There's some restricted sites, but they're drop in the ocean of truth.
They don’t have a culture of questioning and knowing the actual truth will not make them any happier or able to change….
They removed all possible news agencies, they own almost all news channels (obligated more then 50% Russian owned since 5-6 years) and if you give a different opinion on radio or television your are fined or jailed….
Russia has fairly stable and widespread internet and high level of computerization.
Getting truth is matter of simply wanting to.
Most Russians have radio and television and local news and honestly believes the misinformation what is presented from their government.
Russians' problem is that they hate themselves and everyone else.
Even their own families.
Any young Russian, I'd suggest to go and visit their grandparents.
Or neighbors.
Talk to them.
Show them truth.
Tell them that they don't want to die in a war with all the false reasons.
Start giving a fuck so they'd start giving a fuck.
Maybe buy them a smart TV for new year and teach them a bit, so they could watch youtube or different channels.
Maybe those grandparents will wise up and won't throw their votes in the Putin's trashcan.
And keep prepping up the government that kills their own children and grandchildren.
As saying goes, even God doesn't help those who don't want to help themselves.
Wasn't a thing 8 years ago.
When Russia invaded Donbas.
And Crimea.
Putin kept lying and lying on live TV and nobody fucking asked a question or went to protest.
Even less 18 years ago.
Even Navalny could walk on the streets of Moscow more or less unhindered back then.
Where were those different opinions then?
When were there different opinions ever?
If Russians dealt with their elderly and misinformed 10 years ago, there'd be no war today.
But not-giving-a-shit runs so deep that it's not happening even now.
Even soviet time had "kitchen talks", when also you couldn't say anything in public.
People still spoke among themselves... and empire of evil eventually crumbled.
Where is it now?