I don't understand why people think that using a fax machine is outdated.
The number one country in fax machine sales is the U.S., and the number two is Japan, and the number three is Germany.
I mean, the more developed countries tend to use fax machines.
The reason why fax machines became popular in Japan is because Japan has the most developed telephone network in the world.
This is the reason why fax machines are only popular in developed countries because developing countries have imperfect telephone networks.
There are data that show that fax machines are much safer than sending information over the Internet.
No, it just means USA, Japan, and Germany have big enough population and have some weird aversion to new(er) technology when most other "developed" countries moved on from fax machines about 20 years ago.
Yeah, but the nuclear codes/orders were not transmitted via fax to nuclear subs or missile silos EVEN when they used 20 years old 5.25" floppy disks.
AND even the most aversion to changes organization like US military changed and no longer use the floppy disk since 2017 according to the article.
There is nothing inherently "secure" about fax machine or its data transmission.
It's definitely less secure than the end to end encrypted data transmission over internet.
Well, you’d have to have access to the physical line in order to intercept a fax.
Nothing of that sort is needed for end to end encryption, at least theoretically.
Though I do agree that if given access to the physical line, encryption would be far more secure.
This is another load of bullshit people spout on Reddit about Japan over and over.
Can't wait for another "the age of consent in Japan is 13" post which is also false.
Yeah rrrrright.
Who paid for that data/study?
Could it possibly be panasonic or some other fax machine company?
I'm sure that's why NSA and all other spy agencies still cling to fax machines when they need a secure communication.
Fax machines exist in plenty of offices, mostly they're just there because... people don't care enough to get rid of them.
The majority of people aren't faxing and most of the ones who are, are people set in their ways (e.g.
older).
Companies may also keep them around so that older clients can just use that instead of trying to get them to do anything more modern.
There's actually some logic to using fax machines in some situations so I don't know why people are entirely anti-fax, the use case does exist, it's just very niche.
One example is if you're too cheap to equip many different locations with computers, printers and internet you can fax documents on the cheap as it does it all in one.
Really those places should be set up to allow printing directly from smartphones to cut the computer and Internet requirement as you could just use mobile Internet.
However, in fairness, fax is at least secure vs. a smartphone.
Japan has a reputation for being technologically advanced, and in some ways that's true.
But you'd be surprised how backwards they are in every day life.
Fax machines are still basically THE way business is done in most offices.
It's a big part of why they struggle on the world markets after the 80s.
I don't really understand why they don't modernize, but it's been a hindrance to their ability to compete, nationwide, with companies in other nations.
It's pretty much exactly why no everything is made in Taiwan, instead of Japan.
I don't understand why people think that using a fax machine is outdated.
The number one country in fax machine sales is the U.S., and the number two is Japan, and the number three is Germany.
I mean, the more developed countries tend to use fax machines.
The reason why fax machines became popular in Japan is because Japan has the most developed telephone network in the world.
This is the reason why fax machines are only popular in developed countries because developing countries have imperfect telephone networks.
There are data that show that fax machines are much safer than sending information over the Internet.
Nordics don't exactly have a robust economy or much influence over global politics.
They're more of an afterthought for most people, whereas countries like the US, Japan and Germany more directly dictate world affairs.
Again it's easier to make changes when you have a few million people vs tens of millions.
Not saying that it's right, but you'll surely have to recognize why it's easier to modernize a country like Singapore or Iceland than it is the US.