After seeing the front combat videos, I just don’t understand what Russia hope to even archive.
This is terrible but nothing to compare with real combat, Ukraine endured war and this is supposed to break them?
Truth.
A Chinese guy went full ji ping on me the other month and I just let it wash over me and said to myself “hes been drinking their Kool aid since as soon as he could absorb propaganda and so have I and they are alternate programs” so I didn’t bother to debate him on it.
I just didn’t hang out with him again.
Yes, he drank the Kool aid.
Unlike you, who is immune to propaganda and is definitely hearing the truth.
Which is also why you're surprised by what is actually happening on the ground even though your informed, unbiased, non-kool-aid sources told you Russia has no more missiles...
I’m not immune to propaganda.
I realize the pledge of allegiance from 6 on, Boy Scouts, a lot of history classes taught American exceptionalism.
Elementary school they told us America was the only free country in the world.
My friend was English and she insisted it was a democracy and the teachers are like “oh no they aren’t free they have a monarchy”.
Also before the fall of the Berlin Wall the maps were all the wrong size.
They showed the us Canada and Western Europe to be bigger than the Soviet Union… Soviet Union fell and we got regular maps and I wondered why they bothered to lie to us about the size of the country.
So yeah I recognize he’s had his and I have had mine and we have counteracting programming, so I admit I have been programmed by America to be pro US and anti china basically and he’s anti America (despite living here, being poor in china, and rich here), and I knew not to bother.
Another guy wanted me to agree to all these Chinese state talking points (9 dash line, etc) and agree freedom of navigation should be illegal bc it says china on the South China Sea… it’s like I believe in freedom of navigation, international law, free hong kong, free Tibet.
He stopped talking to me.
I said I got a different kind of kool aid in my post.
I’m not sure why you’re angry, but perhaps work on reading comprehension or your adhd?