In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
> Elected officials in Florida and Texas, not to mention half a dozen other states which voted for Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election, don’t want their residents to believe that.
They decry ESG as “woke,” ignoring its original meaning (as my Bloomberg Opinion colleague Stephen Carter explained) as a watchword for Black Americans derived from a Mississippi Delta blues song warning euphemistically of labor exploitation in the early 20th century mills.
These southern states, where racist laws prevailed 50 years ago, now prohibit the biggest Wall Street banks from arranging and selling their new bond offerings because they're “woke,” often assigning the job smaller firms that may not have the resources or reach to ensure that the borrowers are getting the lowest possible borrowing costs.
In Texas alone, the state’s municipal borrowers are paying as much as $532 million more in borrowing costs because of Republican lawmakers’ war with Wall Street over ESG, according to a paper published last year by Daniel Garrett, a University of Pennsylvania professor, and Ivan Ivanov, a principal economist at the Federal Reserve.
The fun part is when they vote in a Democrat there will instantly be sheet-rending screams about how much money these states lost to these bad policies and how the Democrats have done nothing to stop these companies from profiting off their bad policymaking... and the voters will go right back to voting for Republicans who actually invented the crisis in the first place.
Texas and Florida will not be voting in any Democrats.
The GOP's entire goal is to make that impossible through voter suppression and voter disenfranchisement so they can cement permanent power.