It's absolutely bonkers that this started out as a "new type of war" that was being fought through media channels and telecommunication, and international oil and gas spigots, and nuclear threats, and introduced the world to drone versus drone combat, and now it's devolved into just a race to produce artillery shells faster.
Doctrine Radical - Artillery is just ammunition yeeted through the air at high speed and over long range.
It's really only true due to the lack of airpower from both sides.
Look at desert storm and tell me that artillery had any major effect on the victory there.
We used massive barrages of artillery on fortified Iraqi positions along the Saddam Line prior to the ground offensive on Day 1.
Many positions surrendered before the ground forces even arrived after the artillery strikes began.
I get what you’re saying but artillery still played a key role.
Falkland Islands War is probably a better example but even then the Argentinians basically surrendered once the Brits got artillery within range of Port Stanley.
American battlefield doctrine is so heavily reliant on air superiority that it needs to have proper SEAD.
Russian doctrine is much more heavily dependent on artillery.
Still I would argue that American air assets haven’t been tested in thirty years and air defenses today are much more effective than they were in Desert Storm so it’s really hard to say which is superior, even with the Russians presenting a strong argument for the American doctrine.
Oh aircraft definitely played a larger role no doubt.
And a major part of that was due to the fact that America developed superior Suppression of Enemy Air Defense tactics which allowed them to negate the Iraqi air defenses across the vast majority of the battlefield (I would argue that coalition forces never did clear it around Baghdad entirely).
1) Vast majority of Drone videos you see are drones knocking out vehicles which have been abandoned due to being disabled by artillery or sometimes land mines.
Drones aren’t halting armor offensives, artillery is.
3) Kherson Offensive really only succeeded in driving the Russians out after Kyiv got artillery fire’s superiority.