It is crazy to think that none of this had to happen.
There was absolutely no reason other than to appease one man’s ego.
The world as a whole had so much to deal with already, including a pandemic, and a spoiled dictator who wants for nothing decided he had had enough peace and started a whole war that didn’t need to happen.
Now, whole bloodlines are decimated, billions upon billions of damages are done that will take decades to undo, millions of people are traumatized, and we have no idea when we will see the end of this war.
I get propaganda is necessary for morale but I wish there was non biased discussion forum about this war without getting called a Russian shill.
Russia has a new general.
Hes much more competent than the previous one and hes more defensive minded and his plan seems to be to drag this into a long one.
This war needs to end soon for Ukraine to have a stable future(Thats why U.S was/is publicly urging for Ukraine to broker a peace with the invaders) but the longer this drags on the better it is for Russia for numerous reasons.
Russia severely miscalculated by sending lots of BTG’s which are meant to be smaller self-sufficient units to blitz through the capital.
They assumed Ukraine would fold, but clearly they didn’t.
We are watching a slow transition into a war of attrition, which unfortunately for Ukraine, Russia is probably the best in the world at this if we look at their recent wars.
Syria and the second Chechen war are examples of Russian wars of attrition in modern time.
In both these conflicts the enemy had collaborators within to help Russians win.
What they lack right now is a significant 5th column in Ukrainian upper command.
The people Russia paid off to be collaborators in the government have been either snuffed out or ran away.
But If UA armed forces fracture this will be the biggest win for Russia because they could come to an agreement with one side and eliminate the other.
Thus Legitimizing the win and winning over the population by saying “see it was Ukrainians who ousted their illegitimate leader”.