In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
According to existing California law there is no medical exemption for the possession or sale of psilocybin and you're looking at four years.
Personal perspective: the time when I knew that America’s drug laws were out of touch was when I researched mushrooms for 2.5 months before finally consuming 4 grams in a safe setting with a sober spotter.
That 8 hour experience helped me overcome my PTSD and depression.
It instantly granted me an appreciation for the value of my existence and the beauty of life; pain and all.
I had been through years of therapy (it’s an important tool), medication (it’s an important tool), and travel (it’s an important tool).
Mushrooms are an important tool.
Not everyone can handle them.
But that in no way makes them something that should be made illegal.
I am allergic to nuts.
They will kill me.
Should they be illegal just because I will die from them?
No.
And mushrooms themselves do not have a toxic dose.
But those 4 grams could land me in federal prison for 2-20 years.
Are they actually that dangerous?
Surely not in a world where four loco was allowed.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yeah I was looking for ego death and found it around the 90 minute mark.
The Golden Teachers did what they do, and I untangled my knotted, tangled, complex emotions.
I truly felt like I interacted with god (and I’m not religious), I accepted my traumas, I felt the connection of all of life and time, and I felt enthusiasm for the future.
Oh, and I did the one thing they tell you not to do….
I spent time looking in the mirror.
It was incredible.