Two major vessels of the Russian Navy’s Northern Fleet – the heavy nuclear cruiser Admiral Nakhimov and heavy aircraft-carrying cruiser Admiral Kuznetsov of the Soviet Union Fleet – are deemed inoperable.
This was reported by Guildhall referring to a source in Ukraine’s intelligence community, according to Ukrinform.
“The heavy nuclear cruiser Admiral Nakhimov of the Russian Navy’s Southern Fleet, which is under repair, will not be put into operation on time.
It has been established that of the elements of on-board equipment, only the navigation system operates properly, while none of the other units are ready,” the source said.
It is reported that the nuclear reactor powering the ship failed the required tests as its launch was aborted, while the vessel’s radiation protection system also turned out to be faulty.
It was found that the outdated protection of graphite rods, produced back in 1980, has been damaged by corrosion.
The intelligence source also reported that another ship of the Southern Fleet, the heavy aircraft-carrying cruiser Admiral Kuznetsov of the Soviet Union Fleet, is also in critical disrepair.
“In preparation for transferring the aircraft carrier from the dock to the factory for further repairs, it was discovered that the ship could not move on its own.
It was decided to tow the ship, but it was found that the survivability standard could not be maintained due to deep corrosion of the decks below the third, outer hull of the vessel, as well as the presence of water in the holds.
Accordingly, there is a risk that the ship will capsize to one side or sink during towing, so the process was postponed indefinitely,” the source informed.
At the same time, the report says the crews of both ships have been formed anyway.
The size of the crew of the aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov of the Soviet Union Fleet was brought to wartime alert.
The crew of the heavy nuclear cruiser Admiral Nakhimov has also been formed and is preparing to arrive on board.
I just watched a Youtube video on the Kuznetsov.
Apparently, in its 30 years of existence, it's spent barely more than a year at sea but, despite barely ever being at sea, it wore its boilers out from running constantly while in port because Russia doesn't have the proper facilities to maintain the ship.
It's never truly been able to support air operations either and is basically just meant to look fancy.
You need electricity to pump water to cool the reactors while at the dock.
Instead of creating infrastructure to run electricity from the port to the ship, they left the ship idling.
It’s reactors boiled water spinning turbines in boilers.
While it sat at dock.
They didn’t even establish infrastructure so the electricity could be used by the city.
It’s been a piece of shit it’s whole life.
Edit: turns out I watched a video on a different Russian ship that also sucks.
The aircraft carrier isn’t even nuclear powered, but rather some toxic gas mixture that has to be heated to run.
It lacks freshwater in most of the ship in summer and winter.
Crew has to line up for up to six hours to go to the bathroom.
Ventilation doesn’t work on 60% of the ship.
Here’s a video on why the air craft carrier sucks.
Kuznetsov doesn't have a reactor, it runs on some sort of horrible, cheap bunker oil.
So basically, it sat in dock lowering the local air quality considerably.