In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Doing HR for a construction company (not Congress), I had to verify all of our hew hires’ education.
Not necessarily the field guys, but all office people.
You have a degree in accounting?
I’d verify that.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I mean there's already a de facto bar to entry: you need money to run for basically any office.
Which means you start out beholden to donors for the most part, or you're from the moneyed class which ends up having a similar result.
Everyone running for federal (or, really anyone running for any public) office has to submit to a background check.
As to weaponization, I have no idea.
Because we can’t rely on the politicians to tell the truth.
Folks should know the qualifications of the candidates to make informed choices.
If the candidate says they are the count of Monte Cristo and monte cristo has no record of him, that is also useful information.
Money needs to be taken out of politics and there needs to be a significant limitation of job types available post-office.
Being a politician needs to be a job that you can make a good wage at, but not the avenue to money it is now.
That would help select out a lot of the grifters and in it for themselves types, I think.
Everybody in the universe knew what Trump was, and 70 million, that's 70 000 000 or 1/5 Americans, voted to re\-elect him.
So I'm not really confident that "x Republican lied about their history" would move the needle on that side in any way but toward more support.
And the only thing it would do to the 'independents' is give them an excuse to pull the lever for anyone with an (R) after their name for the 8th election in a row.
If a candidate meets the constitutional minimums, no disqualifiers.
If the people want to elect Joe the Plumber, that is their right.
But if Joe claims he’s a plumber, he should be a plumber.
I'm not sure there's any chance, anymore, to save that \30% from themselves--and from us.
There is nothing at all that can be said to them which won't be spun: 'that background check is fake news from the liberal media,' 'they only arrested him for fraud to silence him' and so on.
I don't know how to stop this cancer from destroying our entire society.
The danger isn't only them, it's the people who've realized if you can manipulate them, you're 30 points towards winning an election (and therefore power and money) and you don't have to get much more, whereas the other side has to basically win over everyone who will listen.
I don't disagree that there should be fact-checking like that on general principles, but I don't think it's going to be effective in a world where around 30% of the electorate doesn't care about facts, and another 19-21% does care but votes R anyway.
tldr our society is in massive danger because a small class of people are lazy as goddamn fuck and are taking the easiest possible route to money and power.
The media needs to do basic fact checking and of course the electorate has to care a tiny bit.
Just basic shit like "You call yourself an economist, what training do you have?
Where did you work?
When?"
You don't even need to be a dick about it, if the person isn't lying everything will fit together nicely and a couple of emails to a few people will confirm everything.
Right now most of the media for these candidates just repeat whatever they say and call it reporting.
Those are the really dangerous ones.
Boebert and Greene and the like are true believers--they're dangerous, but mostly only because of who they've hitched themselves to/been hitched by.
Those are the McCarthys and Tucker Carlsons of the world: they want fame and money and power, and stoking resentment (which I'm sure many of them do truly believe in, especially anti-Black racism) is the easiest and fastest way to get there.