I’ve never understood the disrespect directed toward her.
She never held herself up as an expert.
To the best of my knowledge, she hasn’t monetized her position.
She, as a member of the first generation who will spend their whole lives dealing with the consequences of our failures (I’m in my 50’s.
), has merely been calling us out.
Angrily.
As well she should.
We get angry about the price of gas, and people mock her for being pissed about a lifetime of increasingly expensive catastrophes?
SMH.
Making a big noise about it is helpful.
She did nothing wrong yet you are bitching about some superficial bullshit like a 9 year old.
But I really don't believe that she found out about climate change, got so upset at age 11 that she couldn't speak nor eat for 2 months .
All the hate she gets is 100% a result of fossil fuel industry propaganda and right wing political parties (the peddlers of hate).
It's much easier to understand why she is hated when you realize that her words threaten the profits of powerful people.
I have no idea how she came into her activism for this cause, but (assuming your characterization is correct) - in a world where intelligent, educated adults can so thoroughly buy into political lies that they’ll participate in an insurrection - you question an 11-year old’s reaction to finding out that we have avoidably inflicted worldwide catastrophes on her and subsequent generations?
And she is right, climate change is going to be the largest catastrophe humanity ever seen and those old people in power just doesn't care and its infuriating.
And yes, making people keep hearing about how fucked we are and that we HAVE TO do something about it is helpful.
Why can’t we just accept her at face value?
She’s a kid angry that we lived our lives enjoying subsidized energy (in that it did not include the cost of remediating the pollution it generated); we’ve had the actual scientists warning us for decades that we were critically altering the climate and made only token gestures to address it; we (or at least I) will be dead and gone before the worst consequences will be seen; and they will inherit this dumpster fire.
Who cares how well-off her family is?
Who cares what she looks like or anything else about her, other than she’s angry and has every right to be?
Everyone her age ought to be angry with us.
If she did nothing other than help some of her peers recognize that we have generationally screwed them, she at least deserves credit for that.
If not an apology.
Or, you know, actual environmental policy changes.