In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
isn’t there some process or Exec Order to hamstring if not completely stamp null and void on anything procured, promised or threatened by HeJoy over the next few months?
Freeze him out.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Answer appears to be, "Quite a lot."
He has signed sweetheart contracts with incompetent suppliers who will then sue if they are not paid to not deliver non-functioning equipment.
problem is it sets a bad president for signing deals with the government.
legality aside it would greatly reduce the governments bargaining power in negotiating contracts with private companies if the government just breaks a huge contract, even if the contract is shit.
yeah, but we have to stick with a lot of things because if we just reverse course on everything it weakens the position of the government across the board.
for example if we reverse course on moving the embassy in Israel it would greatly weaken our hand with them diplomatically, as well at the rest of the world.
if we had a treason conviction and could lump dejoy in with it we would still want to honor shitty contracts unless they can be deemed illegal.
Not in favor of breaking contracts but give appointed positions a lame duck last 3-6 months with everything during that period requiring a higher level of authority to approve.
And let it be crystal clear to the vendors that this will be SOP.
the only good argument agaist EV's I've heard is that the bulk purchase would suck up enough of the market to greatly increase the price.
so don't do it in one day?
From the article it appears that DeJoy is still fighting for the gas guzzlers.
He is putting up every excuse he can muster.
Also, he is buying the EVs from a company that apparently does not make EVS and does not know how to mass produce vehicles, driving up the costs x 10 and causing delays.
40% is the number he claims, but the company he has selected has no experience making EVs or mass-producing vehicles, apparently.
It looks like a recipe for delays and cost overruns, and for the delivered vehicles to not work as advertised.
- Biden wants a 100% electric mail truck fleet, starting by buying only electric mail trucks from now on.
- DeJoy (Trump revolving-door appointee from a private carrier) wants a 90% gas, 10% electric buy.
The gas trucks will consume more fuel than the old ones, and the electrics will be made by a "defense contractor" (Pronounced "Loyal Republican donor") at DOD prices, e.g., maybe $1 million per truck.
- "Defense contractor" says they cannot deliver EVs.
Biden says, "Buy some from real car companies."
DeJoy says, "Pay the 'defense contractor' more money for fewer vehicles: Expedited delivery payments.
".