These scumbags are so entitled, they meddle everywhere and then huff and puff when found out and threaten the world as a result.
Let their regime crumble.
That, and your follow-on response, are the hallmarks of Whataboutism, a well-known Russian propaganda tactic, comrade.
Europe practices appeasement for decades in response to Russian aggression and willingly becomes Russia's biggest economic partner.
yup BUT, after the fall of the Berlin wall and the collapse of the USSR, the West openly wanted to trade with Russia, not just to prevent choas, but to prevent Russia from depending upon China and stop them from selling all their weaponary.
I recall there was a time that the new russian federation was invited to join the EU and maybe NATO also.
But after a series of shit elections and Pooptin stayed in office and what he did in Georgia, everything went downhill after that.
At first it was more a political rather than an economic and social disorder.
Europe & the west loved to visit the former closed off Russia and businesses opened malls, tech and other goodies and assist Russia with western style of shopping and in return got cheap gas... Europe was so deep in investments in Russia, they (politicians) had to turn a blind eye to the bs Pooptin was doing, besisdes that shitheadtzarwannabe was making more money from the West that Europe thought he wouldnt dare bite the money hands that fed him.
Pooptin could pay his underlings to undermine the west elections and sway their political partied to kiss his ass..
But Noooo after he was slapped in the face after Zelinsky and Biden got into office and his political puppets lost and the curtain exposed the man behind Trump and Johnson.
Putin lost it and thought pushing over Ukraine, would prove a point and the West would just sit and watch (and we did for a month).
Once the West saw Ukraine wasnt a pushover, the little guy that took on a bully... then the BS reason why Putin invaded (Russian apologists: Russia had to invade Ukraine because it felt THREATENED by EU and NATO) and killed and gang raped teens and women....then the West offered up (some) weapons.
The propaganda issue isn't that one cannot criticize past US administrations for their bullshit.
Of course we can.
That's the topic at hand.
Stick to it, or else we'll all be forced to assume that you have an ulterior motive and agenda.
Ignoring the "western imperialism" garbage phrase (also a hallmark of Putin's Fancy Bears propaganda), the issue for your posts is that you are moving the goalposts AWAY from the actual topic in order to say "but what about XXX?
".
That is a classic propaganda technique used by the Russians and you shouldn't fall for it nor employ it.
This also reeks of Putinism, because it implies that the USA is always choosing new enemies...at the very time when it is little Vladolf Shitler (you know the OP topic) who invaded a peaceful sovereign nation (AGAIN) after violating a decades old peace accord, installing his own puppet as president, and trying to launch an internal civil war with his own planted stooges in Eastern Ukraine.