>South Korea and the United States are discussing possible joint planning and exercises using U.S. nuclear assets in the face of North Korea's growing nuclear and missile threats, South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol said in a newspaper interview.
B-1s were converted to only carry conventional bombs so they didnt and wouldn't count for what Yoon wants to do.
Edit: As someone has pointed out below the B-1s can actually carry some nuclear weapons but considering Yoon is saying this I assume he wants something thats more connected to the U.S. nuclear triad to be involved.
i believe it was only disabled from carrying the largest of the arsenal of heavy strategic weapons, so it can still launch what nuclear payloads non-strategic bombers can drop, or what isnt exclusive to heavy bombers.
Go to any Eastern European country and ask the people why they caved to US hegemony and if they wouldn't rather be a "Workers' Republic" again.
Saying that weapons system were placed because "Workers' Republics became a threat to US hegemony" is very much a very tankie-tinted way of phrasing it, when in fact the US was invited to place those weapons systems by their NATO allies who were scared that the Russians might invade them too.
You are still making a choice to frame the situation as an empire protecting its hegemony rather than as a liberal democracy protecting its democratic allies.
One framing is not necessarily right and the other wrong, but neither is neutral.
If you feel like you are being misunderstood, have you considered that you should maybe have chosen your words differently?
Choosing the phrasing “workers’ republics” is also extremely suspect even if you want to argue that’s what they called themselves.
Why not refer to North Korea as “the Democratic Korea”?
It’s the Korea with “Democratic” in its name after all!
Yes, I do believe the Popularly Ruled Folk's Public Thing of The Land of Morning Calm's kernelly arms are meant first and foremost to defend Kim Jong-Un from suffering the same fate as fellow tyrants Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi.