In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
For petty thievery Stealing checks from an elderly person his mom was a caregiver for…elder abuse Why would New York voters want a representative that would steal from the most vulnerable senior citizens.
That in itself is enough to get rid of him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The friend took the shoes and tried to exchange them, not knowing the crime he committed.
The shopkeeper recognized them, and followed the friend to find santos, who was going under an alias.
He has an open “wire fraud” charge in Brazil.
When he was younger he took some checks.
He used a check to purchase shoes for a friend.
Dumb childish stuff but seems par for the course with this clown.
Apparently the charge is still open and it’s an offense in both countries, meaning he could legally be extradited.
I’d say this is highly unlikely, because usually the place looking for you pays the cost of extradition.
I once had an open warrant for two felonies that weren’t going to pay off well for 7 years.
Every time I got stopped at airports and stuff, they would call over there and the authorities would decline to come get me.
I literally ended up going back to court after 7 years and they were like why the fuck are you even back here?
They hit me with like a $2k fine and dropped both charges.
Maybe we take a collection for the cost of extradition.
It'd be cheaper than salary + benefits.
Not even counting the damage he'd likely do as Congrifter-man.
I do side with your opinion.
I was just sharing my experience.
Where you run into issues here is people like him (political and high visibility targets) is mostly what I’ve seen.
The bottom line is if you really pissed someone off, the system will go out of the way to make an example of you.
I am however surprised he hasn’t been picked up in Brazil if he’s gone back since the charge.
Next will be Trump saying he can be President even if he’s incarcerated.
If it doesn’t specify in the Constitution about it, the GOP will use it as a loophole!
The Constitution needs to be amended to prevent anyone with a criminal history from running for public office.