In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It might be different if the fact he was the first black speaker was mentioned here or there but when EVERY article and the news is putting emphasis on the fact he is black, over emphasis of what he stands far, or emphasizing the fact he’s the first black speaker of the house rather than where his politics lie, says everything.
It’s like introducing your new boyfriend to everyone like “everyone, meet x, my first black boyfriend.
What?
What’s wrong with what I said?
It’s true.
He is my new boyfriend and he is in fact black.”.
The biggest appeal of this decision is that he is black.
And they know that.
That’s what they’re selling voters to give an allure of progressiveness despite his neoliberal corporatism.
They know exactly what they’re doing.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It’s not about him “just being chosen because he’s black.” I’m not in anyway saying that.
I’m just saying thats the headline.
I think if you want that level of nuance from a headline instead of clickbait you’re living in the wrong timeline.
I’ll address what I picked up as the subtext of your post in a way the article maybe didn’t make clear, though.
The progressive wing of the Democratic Party stonewalling against the neoliberals because they don’t do things the “right way” is a non-starter.
We need to be fighting the surging fascism that is the modern Republican Party, not each other, which means until those fascist elements fade into obscurity and we can slide the Overton window back to the realm of sanity we’re going to have to compromise with each other.
What you may have missed in the article is that Katherine Clark, a leader of the progressive caucus, was elected as the Minority Whip leg of the House Democratic leadership triumvirate.
That position doesn’t get the press that Speaker of the House does, but having worked with Steny Hoyer, the outgoing party whip, and watched him collect votes, it carries huge weight in influence.
The sort of diversity/balance/contrast in leadership is what House Democrats in general are looking for, and why they’ve been successful at getting legislation passed - even if it didn’t go as far as we’d like.
Hopefully cutting the party leadership age by 30 years and including a progressive will change that.
However, the reality is neoliberal corporatist “moderates” make up a sizable chunk of the Democratic Party, both in and out of Congress, and appealing to them while injecting progressive policy is a winning strategy… for the moment.
I wish they said corporate laywer turned politician but nah, they don't think anybody would look into his track record because he's the first Black caucus leader.
Shit's all an elaborate club and 99.9% of Americans aren't in it.