In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Liz Cheney would be optimal -- if all dems went on her there would easily be a natural 8 republicans that would jump in with no arm wringing just to get out of the hell hole.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
2.
Keep iterating this same vote over and over and slowly peel off Gop Opposition to eventually get to McCarthy.
Oof, brutal "win" for McCarthy.
But that is his best case scenario.
It is now a game of chicken.
He lost 19 defectors in the first round.
He needs 15 to come over to his side.
Mostly the usual.
Speaker puts votes up.
People vote.
Things happen.
It'd be harder to get the votes together to make anything happen but that's all, really.
Theoretically, at least.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
more realistic to go all in on someone like Liz Cheney.
There are at least 8 republicans that would hop on that to get out of this hell hole and the outcome would be a speaker that has to work across the isle to get anything done.
Personally I think the absolute win.
for dems would be to nominate Liz Cheney and put all votes to her.
It does a few things, first it easily wins as there has to be 8 republicans that would vote for her and just be done with the hell hole they are in.
Second it assures that the speaker will be positioned to both be a non trump sycophant AND need to work across the lines for the next two years.
It appears they don't want anything transactional.
Not bills or committee assignments.
They want Kevin to step aside.
What we have is a good ol fashioned game of chicken, and the POINT is to make it as painful as possible for your opponent.
It is a win win for the house dems -- sure there may be a bunch of dems that really dislike her positions on many topics, but in this way they could at least ensure there is some level of cross isle effort.