The Kremlin's point of view which is presented in this article is - once again - complete and obvious nonsense.
Of course Ukraine was extremely weak and vulnerable in 2014/2015, and of course a deal was needed to stabilize the country and stop the clashes.
As a matter of fact, it was Russia starting the conflict in 2014 by violating the sovereignty of Ukraine and forcefully invading Crimea.
And as a matter of fact, Russia itself has proven on February 24, 2022 that the fears of Ukraine and the West about more Russian aggression, more land grabbing, more annexations were totally justified.
The Kremlin keeps trying to blame others for its own aggressive policies toward its neighbors.
Nobody outside of Russia takes that trash talk seriously anymore.
This is a very recent history, Russia in the late 80s/early 90s negotiated with NATO and the Western democracies to disband on the premise that the West would not move NATO any further East than Germany.
Every single US president has broken that agreement by allowing more former soviet states to join NATO.
Obviously, there is a big difference between allowing a country into a treaty organization and invading a neighbor, but to look at the conflict from 2014 onward is disingenuous at best.
Both the West and the Russians have major culpability in this conflict, and when you look at the last 33 years, it seems like it was inevitable.
I am in no way saying that any of this should have happened, but if Russia made a treaty deal with Canada or Mexico and set up bases and provided weapons, we would not be jazzed about it.
Especially if we saw it slowly happening over 30+ years and it reached a tipping point.
Certainly, it was not listed in a treaty, but supposedly was verbally stated by a couple of Bush Sr. Admin officials involved in the negotiations.
I think in a practical sense and based on what we have seen play out, that is all that matters.
Russia uses that claim to manipulate their citizens and allies and it is effective enough to have pushed them into a war.
Also worth noting is that Russia and its puppet separatists in the Donbas never actually implemented the ceasefire and other provisions prescribed by the Minsk agreements, and Russia unilaterally tore it up earlier this year by recognising the separatist regions as independent (and then annexing them).
Ukraine was supposed to implement some mild constitutional reforms and hold elections in Donetsk and Luhansk and yes, they missed the deadlines dates for doing so, but they could hardly be held responsible when it was Russia's little green men kept shelling the line of contact and attacking Ukrainian border posts with machine guns.
Between 2014 and 2022 there was rarely a week that went by without a Ukrainian soldier being killed in one of these attacks.
What may have been stated verbally (and thus cannot be confirmed) and has been denied by the Russians in power at the time matters not at all.
There is nothing to differentiate it from outright lies.
I don't disagree with the assertion here, just that true or not, it doesn't matter as it worked well enough for the Russians to commit and is an underlying premise for their war effort.
Then what's the point of making that claim?
You could say that the Russians decided Ukraine were all Nazis - it doesn't matter what the claim is if it's a pretense for the war and the truth value doesn't matter.