In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I owned a tax preparation CPA firm for over 10 years, and I'm constantly surprised at how people in the middle to upper-middle class will so vociferously support tax rules that will never benefit them.
When the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 went into effect, many of my clients seemed to support raising the federal tax exemption on estates from about $5.5 million to $11 million.
Meaning that a father and mother may pass on up to $22 million of their fortune without any federal estate tax.
In addition, any appreciated assets get an immediate "step-up" so if the beneficiaries sell their inherited assets shortly after receiving them, they are unlikely to pay capital gains tax on the sale.
Many of my clients were completely in favor of this, saying that money passing from parent to child shouldn't be taxed.
I explained that for 99.9% of families, it never is.
These sorts of tax rules will allow the wealthiest of the wealthy families (like the Waltons or DuPonts) to pass their fortunes from generation to generation, getting more and more powerful with each passing decade.
Now, the superwealthy have become so powerful, they have used their influence to dismantle the rules that used to prevent them from using their fortunes to buy favors from politicians.
I could go on and on about the many ways the superwealthy have hijacked our tax system and are using it to amass ridiculous sums of wealth for themselves.
They've pushed the politicians they control to vote against every reasonable measure that would help the IRS collect tax revenue from them.
I am a CPA as well, though tax is not my expertise.
Capping the state tax deduction to $10k was a killer for anyone making between $100-$500k, especially in states with high tax rates.
And every time there are tax cuts, republicans claim they will pay for themselves via increased economical growth.
Every fucking time, even though real growth have been steady at 2% (except 2008, 2009, 2021 and 2022) regardless of the tax rate.
Maybe, just maybe, there is no correlation between tax rates and growth?
And Maybe, just maybe, trickle down economics is not a thing?
Unfortunately, most people don't give a fuck about any of this.
They don't understand, or refuse to acknowledge how damaging this is.
Do not get me started about PPP cesspool.
Why did the government give over a trillion dollars to companies that most did not have financial difficulties, I will never know.
Yet giving $300 billion to people making less than $75k is nanny state.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
i dont think even reagan believed in trickle down.
it was just a thin veil to cloak their enrichment of their rich buddies .
M249 + deagle is for the truly delusional, and you buy the full armor, every type of grenade, and night vision.
But, but, but I saw on Fox News a segment about crime ridden cities by criminal immigrants.
You mean I shouldn’t believe everything I hear on Fox News and I have to read reliable sources to get accurate information?
Shame on you.
I cannot read!
Yes and no.
Blue states are richer, have much better government spending, better health, education and welfare system.
As the map clearly indicates, life expectancy in most democratic control states and counties is higher.
Ya, as if the current inflation has anything to do with democrats or republicans.
But Fox News said democrats caused inflation.
That is easy to understand.
Trying to understand complicated economic issues related to supply chain, economic situation outside the US and war is way beyond the average MAGA head level of understanding.
I am sure Joe Biden is causing inflation in Europe and Asia too.
Sure, they could and should do more.
However, republicans made and will continue to make the systems worse.