In some places they are known as lorries, but it's a big vehicle usually hauling shipping containers on wheels.
Semi-reuck, eighteen wheeler, lorries, etc.
By burning down villages/towns/cities with the expressed intent of firestorms and taking advantage of their wooden buildings?
Reall good guy narrative there.
Oh I'm sorry, did we set your family on fire and melt your infrastructure.
Here is money but profits go to American industries aiight?
!
Was the only season I owned on DVD as a kid, so have watched that season far more than I care to admit lol.
I thought it was a Tony Soprano reference… But I’m pretty sure it’s the same guy that does the voice for fat Tony, and the character is based on Soprano.
I wont ever know the truth, especially when people eat up good guy bad guy propaganda like chikdrens cartoons.
The US has been involved in dozens of wars since then and.make sit hard to seem like the "good guys".
Lots of conquerors are bloody and commit genocide.
If Japan had held Saiam and Korea there would not have been a vietnam war nor would there be a N Korea today.
Same as when Charlemamge united France or Julius Caezar conquored Gaul.
Same as Washinon or Jhon A Macdonald or anyother warlord.
Does that justify mid east, Asian and S American wars since then somehow?
Does the slate get wiped clean forever because they were "the good guys once upon a time".
I wonder if a unified Europe under the Reich would eventually pass reforms for freedoms 2 or 3 generations after the war.
Seems to happen more than one would think.
Happenned in my country and we have had peace for generations (as long as you ignore the ongoing genocide and the conquored peoples).
Are we really morally superior?
I am not so sure.
Im neither ignorant of history nor am I a nazi.
I just don't think "the good guys" should have caused untold wars afterwards.
You point to atrocities then say 'they should not have started the war, thats what they get' unless its their atrocities then it is genocide... Every village leveled or forest hit with round up is blood on their hands.
How is Nanking so different from the daily firebombings of Tokyo?
Literally burning millions of people alive daily.
You think these are the good guys?