People need to understand what Pakistan has become.
After decades of military coups and foreign aid to them, the "establishment" top branch of the military has more power than anyone else.
Their is an illusion of elections which they manipulate and break governments that speak against them, their is an illusion of free press which they heavily censor and propagandize, their is an illusion of freedom to do what you want unless you speak against the state and you are picked up and beaten senseless.
Everyone is essentially powerless against them because they can easily blackmail the judiciary and police to pick you up in the middle of the night and torture you.
That's what Imran is now fighting against...fascism and military rule.
He naively thought he could reform within or they wanted to change.
It's not possible.
These are the people that tried to assassinate him.
Even naming them in the media is taboo, because the illusion is the most important part.
Imran named an ISI general directly and now they are in full panic and trying to spin it in the media, Imran is the bad guy even though he almost got killed.
You can't gaslight the world.
It's a tough issue in all these countries, because how do you disarm the military?
A government steps out of line, they're replaced with a more friendly one or direct military rule.
People rise up?
The military puts it down by force, and it's exceedingly hard to get the military to switch sides and join the protesters when the military exists as a state within the state.
Similar setups exist in Egypt, Thailand and Myanmar.
Even before the military coups in all three, the military was the largest power broker in the countries for decades.
And atleast in Egypt's case the military controls or has hands in all kinds of industries and property to ensure influence at all levels of society.
I think alot of people especially in the west take civilian leadership of the military and rule of law for granted when it comes to the military.
It's a complete contrast to see what it looks like when the military gives itself free reign to exert its' power.
Pakistan was founded as a democracy, and the movement we are seeing the last 6 months are aspiring to go back those roots with massive anti-military sentiment coming forward.
Completely unprecedent in Pakistani culture which basically pushed and propagandized ultra-nationalism over the last 3 decades.
Also logistically for Pakistan the military is stuck.
The population is too big to control even with the military size.
Troops have to be on the Afghan border, they have to be on the Kashmir border, and they have to be some troops in Balochistan bordering Afghanistan/Iran.
So whatever clampdown you can do is very limited.
They have to rely on the ISI to spread fear.
But as more politicians speak out and break the "illusions" I mentioned their is a lot less fear.
This is why we are also seeing last resort assassination attempts.
Panick and fear of a corrupt system falling apart against a wave of popular support.
It is truly a soft revolution.
We are either going to emerge with a stronger democracy (still flawed mind you can't fix it all in months) or with massive repression by the state.
That does not mean that Imran Khan is good, or not corrupt.
I can see other reasons for the military to be the dominant power in that sad state of affairs.
But keep in mind this fact.
The average age in Pakistan is 23.
Even a loss in this struggle is still a win, because it will be a constant reminder to this young now angry population that the state is against their voice.
We can certainly agree that Pakistan’s up and coming youth generation deserve a more democratic and less corrupt administration, without violence, or foreign influence.
I think we are in a precipice where we will either see a brutal crackdown or a real push from that younger generation to assert themselves in a democratic way.
I'm rooting for real democracy here.
Although I do not know enough about Pakistan’s politics, I knew it was a step backwards when Benazir Bhutto got assassinated.
America had that too in the 1960s.
I just hope we can see Trump put in prison.
Bro warning shot?
they had multiple shooting angles in a set up kill box, and did manage to kill someone.
The only reason Khan is alive is that he fell and the second shooter with the ak thought he was dead.
Yeah but this isn't how they would do that, they would use one goon and purposley hit him non fataly not just spray and pray like they did.
Im not saying who was behind it im saying that was a trap with multiple angles to kill him.