"Men cannot be lesbians" was a statement targeted at a trans woman who identified as lesbian - the potentially offensive nature of the statement is that this filmmaker referred to a trans woman as a man.
Norway's hate speech laws include hate speech based on gender identity, which might cover this statement.
"Faces up to 3 years in prison" means "under investigation to determine if a crime was committed, and if so, the maximum penalty for that crime is 3 years".
As far as I can tell, no charges have been filed, it's entirely possible this does not qualify under Norway's hate speech laws, and even if it is a crime, there will likely be a much lighter sentence than 3 years of prison, which seems to be the absolute maximum penalty for hate speech in Norway.
More accurate headline: "Norwegian filmmaker says trans women are not really women, comes under investigation to determine if this is hate speech".
Who gives a fuck, how someone identifies him/her - self Keep your identifications for yourself, if it is important to you.
Why does the whole world need to forcefully acknowledge it?
There are whole nations that get no recognition of independence.
So you don’t like how people identify and want others to not gaf yet here you are ranting.
Make it make sense, dude 🤦‍♀️ People deserve to be respected and acknowledged in the way that they want.
European countries have hate speech laws in effect and if the reporter purposely violated them, she deserves what she gets.
Bravo.
Are you using Bing?
Google brings up some handy things and with translation services offered by Google you can even translate Norwegian sources.
is top on the search results.
appears as the top result.
And I don't think I need to list the pages of search result that are easily found.
If you ignore the precedent of how they have ruled in the past, sure.
But given their history of giving any prison time for these cases, no she won't receive any prison time if found guilty.
I am saying that if everyone has to respect everyone's identification, than those who criticize it, also have the right to do so and not be threatened with jail time.
Freedom of speech is kinda important...
Sometimes when you want to get educated on a topic you need to work at it and not just get it handed to you on a golden platter.
There is a reason lawyers go through a challenging education process and review board before they can work as a lawyer.
Our politicians wanted to put trough a bill, where anyone who had anything to say against our politicians, could be prosecuted for hate speech That is a slippery slope Definition of hate speech can be very loosely defined!
3 years in prison seems to be the maximum possible sentence for hate speech in Norway - which would include things like serious death threats, so I do think there's at least an argument for that penalty in some cases.
In this case, the filmmaker in question may have committed hate speech, but it's unsure - she likely won't receive any sentence at all, and if she is found guilty, she'll almost certainly get far less than the maximum.
Then it would fall under the same law and would have the same maximum jail time.
But no one is sent to jail without a court reviewing the matter and all this does is tie their hands in the maximum punishment they can decide is appropriate.
Just because it has a maximum sentence doesn't mean she will face the maximum sentence.
You admit there are instances of that same crime that warrant the maximum sentence.
That is the point of having a judicial system at all.
If I take my nation's secrets and tell another nation all about them I could face more than 3 years of prison time for saying words.
Not sure anyone would say that espionage should have a huge loophole like you can't receive punishment because it was verbal.
Well you wanted to know how does one face 3 years in prison for saying words.
I gave an example of someone saying words that I think we both agree should face more than 3 years in prison, right?
You never said you wanted an equivalent case to understand, that is just moving the goalpost.
The words "up to" are doing a lot of heavy lifting there.
Maximum penalties might be used in cases where the speaker is directly inciting violence, advocating genocide, or something like that - this specific comment might not even count as hate speech, and will receive a much lighter penalty if it does.
(Though according to some other sources linked in this thread, this filmmaker may have actually incited violence in other cases and might face penalties for that.
).
We have so many problems on this planet.... and this is the one taking priority?
People expressing their views, really?
Call it whatever \fobia you will... this is BS!
She probably won't.
"Facing up to 3 years in prison" makes it sound like she's awaiting sentencing, but as far as I can tell she hasn't even been charged - she's under investigation to determine if she broke Norway's hate speech laws, but that's not decided yet.
3 years of prison seems to be the absolute maximum sentence for hate speech in Norway, and if she is somehow charged and found guilty, she'll likely get a much lighter sentence.
In this specific case, the statement "men cannot be lesbians" appears to be part of a pattern of repeated harassment of a lesbian trans woman.
Norwegian law covers hate speech based on gender identity as well as other categories such as race, so it's possible that applies here.