In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Now after those months, I got a half a dozen employment search verification form in the mail all past due and dated due before they were even sent out.
Had to schedule a call individually for each of them to get it sorted out.
then for the next month every form was like that, and the ones that followed were usually due within like two days of receiving them.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Comer REALLY wants to investigate Joe Bidens classified docs and Hunter Bidens money.
When asked about Trumps docs and Jared's money he tends to pretend he didn't hear right.
in OR it's by design.
the state assumes fraud with every application.
Just about everyone I know here that was eligible had ended up waiting 2-3 months for their claims to be processed.
and that's after waiting on hold for hours and hours.
meanwhile everyone i know i NY that applied started getting money within 2-3 weeks.
I was denied twice in OR and there was no real appeals process.
at least not one that was reasonable.
Its a little bit of all of the above.
The system is also oriented to discourage claims, and to make it easier to deny benefits to applicants for no particular reasons.
that sounds like what they did when i medically retired and applied for benefits like over a decade ago.
Not only was it damn near impossible to file a damn claim at the time, but once filed they would not confirm receipt of the case, nor was there anyway to contact anyone to talk to in person for advice/updates.
Best you could do was to schedule a meeting via an online scheduler and then you'd get a 4 hour waiting window for when they might call.
"best part" the douchebags who would followup on those phone appointments would talk with no small amount of glee in their voices if they had any reason at all to deny someone their earned benefits.
Not because of fraud, or anything, but because that's what they got pleasure from... causing harm to others, and tripping on their positions of nonexistent power over them.