Not sure where you're getting this from, they're not even in the top 10 for per capita military spending.
USA is at 3 with 2400$, Finland at 10 with 1000$.
So even if Estonia is 11, the US is still 2.5 times as militarized.
Estonia gave 1% of TOTAL GDP to Ukraine for military purposes (does not include humanitarian aid).
In Estonia usually around 2.3% of GDP goes for military in total.
Yes, but the last time they fought militarily was over a hundred years ago, and Estonia whipped the Russians so hard they gave up for around 20 years.
Estonia, which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), is considering the possibility of effectively blocking the passage of Russian ships through the Baltic Sea.
Estonia's introduction of a so-called contiguous zone, which can be up to 12 nautical miles from the 12-mile territorial sea, allows the country to conduct searches in the Gulf of Finland on military ships and civilian vessels to monitor compliance with Estonian law.
Currently, the Gulf of Finland within this zone is designed to leave a three-mile wide "corridor" for free navigation.
And formally, Estonia will simply close this "corridor" by declaring it an adjacent zone.
In fact, this simply means a sea blockade of one of the most powerful ports of the Russian Federation, Saint Petersburg, and all others in the Leningrad Oblast, as well as a blockade of the Baltic Fleet of the Russian Federation.
At the same time, the main thing in this matter is not so much the possibility of announcement, but the possibility of real control on the part of Estonia.
It should be noted that the entire Estonian fleet consists of four ships - the EML Wambola (A433) Lindormen-class minelayer, and three Sandown-class minehunters.
The Border Service also has 1 Kindral Kurvits multipurpose rescue ship and boats.
It should also be noted that in 2021, Estonia purchased Blue Spear anti-ship missiles from Israel, which are to be part of the coastal defense complex.
Although the term of the contract is marked at the level of 2026.