This is part for the course when Israel fights Hamas.
Not an escalation insofar as it doesn't really differ from a normal activity there, and certainly not an indication of anything globally.
Now, are there unusual or escalating wars and tensions that can reflect a worrisome trend?
Sure.
This just isn't one.
But war is bad always, because here are two factions fighting, and they would both like friends to help them win.
Yeah, it's clear from this comment that you simply aren't educated on the I/P conflict, as you're pretty far off base for pretty much everything you said in that first paragraph.
While as a generalization war ought to be avoided when possible, of course, in this article Israel isn't escalating anything, just doing the good deed of destroying a weapon facility in response to an attack on civilians.
I honestly don't know the situation in Israel well enough, other than there are many problems caused by believing in random crap that makes some piece of land super important culturally, and the Palestinians were displaced because for some reason Hitler's genocide and Holocaust justified giving Israel to europeen Jewish people.
Oh but surprise , I don’t know whether you did your research or not but the US has done way too many coups and shit in the past 70 years and ruined many nations , people are just tired of it and it doesn’t help that the American civilians have zero clue about it and say we are the good guys, why does the world hate us you could check Johnny Harris videos about US coups on YouTube and other stuff too !
All I am saying is sure the US might have done good things but it has done A lot of bad things as well , Iraq and WMDs and supporting dictators across the world like in Iran and South America .
Nothing wrong with not knowing things, and it's a complex conflict, so I don't hold that against you!
Pretty sure the parts I said are what it is.
The rest that people make it out into this big complicated thing is all bullshit.
US trying to go isolationist ?
This is gonna end up badly , without the US to through their weight around , blocs will start to emerge and then we all know what happens is absolute chaos.