Nope.
Checked it(i am an indian).
WHO is not providing clear facts for complete investigation and indian officials have t found anything wrong in syrup.
Its commonly used in india.
Step out of the bubble that every global organization is trying to "defame India."
That's what happens when you follow BJP so dearly.
Not true.
The government found 12 violations and shut down the production of the company (Idk if it's temporary or permanent).
Nope WHO is contradicting itself in its own reports but still pushing to blame syrups.
Sounds like they are trying hard to push out indian Pharma which makes good medicines at affordable prices to support big pharma profiteering in west.
no offense but I would trust WHO over some Indian pharma companies…the Indian officials are equally likely to protecting their financial interests by denying the claims…interesting they don’t say none of the compounds were found in the medicine, they just say the medicines complied with specifications….
The firm producing the syrup is not really very important to indian Pharma industry but WHO itself contradicts in its own report that all medicines have complied with safety limits of WHO.
While i hate the fact this conversation includes the death of kids but WHO needs to clarify how has it put the blame on medicine.
Indian officials in health ministry are asking WHO to submit investigation report which WHO is not doing.
So The Gambia reports some child illnesses and deaths and find it’s related to one companies cough medicines, they test it and it shows toxic chemicals are present which exactly line up with the symptoms the children are experiencing…The Gambia stops all sales of that particular medicine and the deaths and illness decline…thats pretty clear…so I’m not sure how this is a conspiracy of the WHO…how do they benefit from this???
As per you Covid-19 comment…can you please show the WHO press release from Nov 2019 where they stated that Covid-19 is not contagious…since it was only first reported by a doctor in Wuhan on Dec 1 2019 and reported to the WHO on the 31st of Dec 2019..and it was in the public eye until Jan/Feb the next year..
Indian officials are asking for the tests and reports which show that syrup is responsible which WHO is not issuing.
Also on the other hand WHO has admitted that all the components in the medicine are within prescribed safe limit set by WHO.
Also, alas i do not wish to speculate but the west was not clearly "happy" when India was able to make and supply Covid-19 vaccines for very cheap (less than 5$ per dose) to poor countries as big pharma in west wanted to profiteer from it.
(compare prices of Indian vaccine with the vaccines produced in west).