In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
>However, current owners of big cats will be allowed to keep their animals - as long as they don't allow direct contact between them and the public and register them with the US Fish and Wildlife Service.
I looked at the bill and it does include cheetahs, whose size overlaps quite a bit with that of cougars--they can weigh up to 160lbs.
One of the incredible things about cougars to me is how much they resemble a house cat.
Mountain lions don't really look like African lions at all, other than being solid colored.
The "small cat" design is just scaled up to leopard size, so the proportions of their faces, bodies, and habits resemble "big cats" but those features still look like "small cats": big eyes, big pointy ears, kind of a sweet expression, a profile without the big cat underbite-looking chin.
And they purr and meow, and unlike panthera cats who grasp their food to eat it and often lie on their sides to do it, cougars crouch over their kill like a house cat at a food dish.
Beautiful and scary.
Instead of making me want a pet cougar, it points out how much sense it makes that a small cat was domesticated instead of a big one.
A labrador-sized cat would not only be dangerous, but also more expensive to feed than a dog, since cats' diet require a much higher concentration of meat.
A small cougar requires 15 lbs of meat per day.
I see, it is only the 15-foot rule that doesn't include cheetahs.
And also interesting that snow leopard isn't on the list.
(No, snow leopards aren't leopards any more than jellyfish are fish).
The kind of places that bred tigers for petting props were never contributing to conservation in the first place because the gene pool for privately-owned tigers is a dumpster fire.
Virtually all of them are hybrids of the Bengal and Siberian subspecies, and many of them are severely inbred.
Captive breeding programs like the ones in accredited AZA zoos are good, but those are very carefully managed to ensure a genetically healthy, sustainable population that might someday be able to return to the wild.
That kind of management wasn't being done in the private trade, it was largely "puppy mill" style breeding with no regard for the lonerm health of the animals.
Captive tigers will breed like rabbits even in suboptimal conditions, so it's surprisingly easy for bad breeders to churn out cubs.
The CWSA was created to cut down on illegal trafficking of big cats and stop the pet trade, but it didn't ban the public contact industry which drove breeding mills, and it also exempted anyone with a USDA exhibitor's permit, which all of the roadside Tiger King zoos already had.
This new Act unequivocally bans anyone from allowing public contact, and private owners who already own big cats aren't allowed to breed or buy more unless they're a licensed exhibitor.
The only thing that allowing unregulated breeding/trade of big cats did was create a new source of tiger parts for the illegal wildlife trade and lessen the US's international credibility on wildlife crime.
It's hard to tell China to stop farming captive tigers for the wildlife trade when the US doesn't even track how many we have, who owns them, or where they end up.
Although hybrid vigor can happen, it's not really the point of conservation programs.
The goal is to preserve the entire genetic diversity of wild populations, including subspecies.
For example, a Sumatran tiger is very different from a Siberian tiger, and breeding the two together, while possible, would only create an animal that wouldn't exist in nature.
The other issue with using privately-owned tigers for conservation breeding is that the genetic history of these animals is often unknown, so they could be harboring genetic defects or other harmful mutations that may not be immediately apparent.
To be fair, animal welfare and conservation groups have been pushing this legislation since 2012, but it didn't really take off until Tiger King brought the issue to the forefront.
Meanwhile, Tiger King filmed tiny portions of enclosures and focused on unfounded allegations against Baskin (which are largely pushed by Joe Exotic and other shitty roadside zoos who have a clear personal interest in discrediting her) so that they could go "BoTh siDeS aRE The SaMe".
Years ago, another Redditor had the insight that Tiger King reflected the same American zeitgeist as the 2016 Trump vs. Hillary election.
On one side, you have a woman who has made mistakes in the past but is generally competent and well-meaning, despite years of smear campaigns making her offputting to some people.
On the other, you have a crass, narcissistic, deranged conman who openly flouts the law, hurts people and animals for his own personal profit, and makes up lies about his rivals, but the public loves him because his antics are "entertaining.
".
Interesting list.
That is all of Panthera plus cougars, which makes sense.
Though not "Big Cats", cougars are big cats.
Interesting they don't include cheetahs.
They too aren't "Big Cats", they are about comparable in size to a snow leopard.
The problem was that you didn't have to be rich to buy a big cat.
You should be, in order to have the resources to care for it properly, but at an animal auction or from a roadside zoo looking to get rid of "surplus" animals.
Said cub then grows up to spend the rest of its life in a cage or basement, if it doesn't escape and injure someone, because the owner doesn't have the knowledge, facilities, or money to care for it.