This could be the year that the heroes of russia take the olympics by storm and score 100% gold,.150% silver and 200% bronze medals.
Althought the exclusion is understandable to limit political influence, it is not exactly fair for random Russian athletes, and even less so for athletes from another countries.
Imagine you are training for years to do your job, and then you will be told that you cannot go because someone decided so.
It’s not fair that those same athletes supportive or silent of their country’s invasion of another one can seek glory in the Olympics either.
Hitler, for example, used Aryans in the Olympics to justify further violence against minorities in Germany.
The Olympics can serve as a persuasive tool to galvanize support for a cause, especially when that cause is arguing for the extermination of an ethnic identity in a neighboring country.
It is a minefield, and i would like to see russia out in the cold, excluded from everything until it stops empirical aggression.
Well, if 75% of Olympic medalists went to an alternative Games, Western media would cover it and broadcast it.
The revenues would be there to do it right--because TV ads.
Maybe the IOC would be forced to give its imprimatur.
Your point about all the organizations rates a "Duh!".
Of course they are there, and it is through them the Olympics are organized.
The whole point of a "Games" is to bring all those sports together.
A "World Games" can be run for a lot less than the IOC's bloated, bribery-infused, extravaganzas.
And, if you had a critical mass of countries participating, would generate lots of money--because the ad dollars come from a minority of countries, the rich ones.
A few years ago, New York City put a bid in to host, proposing using existing facilities and taking the opportunity to upgrade some.
Iirc, they were going to rent cruise ships to house the athletes.
Their projected cost was a fraction of the winning bidder's.
There are four cities that I can immediately think of that have almost all the facilities already in place to host: Paris, London, Los Angeles, New York and Tokyo.
(Huh.
That's five).