In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Right wing grifters follow the same strategy as Nigerian prince scammers do: make your pitch as stupid as possible to weed out anyone with half a brain, then it's easier to get money and votes from them.
A lot of first generation entrepreneurs think America is a level playing field.
Through skill and hard work, they are able to ascend in this land of opportunity.
But, they haven't had major setbacks or experienced systemic obstacles.
Once upon a time Warren used to think people declaring bankruptcy were "deadbeats"; when she researched how healthcare costs caused insolvency, she changed her views.
If this clown had been wrongfully incarcerated, had a serious condition and couldn't afford healthcare, or he had to suddenly step into a US court to recover damages, he would realize he got lucky.
Just what we need: another snotty narcissist uberwealthy know it all better that is trying to ride the anti-woke wave and, worse, pretending to be the champion for us little people.
Almost everything in this article indicates him being a self absorbed dickwad.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yes, you are correct that he wasn't impoverished.
He just got really wealthy here.
He's not someone who has a deep connection to the reality of what life is like for most Americans.
His platform is largely informed by his own biases.
We need leaders with a much more profound grasp of the challenges people face.
No one should pretend exceptions are the rules if they want to govern to improve the state of the remainder of the population distribution.
Right wing grifters follow the same strategy as Nigerian prince scammers do: make your pitch as stupid as possible to weed out anyone with half a brain, then it's easier to get money and votes from them.
Right wing grifters follow the same strategy as Nigerian prince scammers do: make your pitch as stupid as possible to weed out anyone with half a brain, then it's easier to get money and votes from them.