In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
All of these healthcare bans are designed to keep kids scared and in hiding, the only thing they "protect" is the fragile worldview of people who believe they should be able to force everyone else to live according to their favorite fairy tale.
Minors are prohibited from doing a whole multitude of things in our society.
How is this any different considering the permanent nature of these treatments?
Generally the things that minors can't do are things that are bad for their health.
This is prohibiting them from accessing medical and behavioral care that significantly improves their quality of life and significantly reduces risks of suicide.
This is monstrous, and is being done to score political points and advance an agenda of bigotry.
There are \very few\ instances of fully irreversible procedures being provided to minors, even fewer when you look at procedures that are truly trans-specific- and when those happen it's with \significant\ oversight from medical experts because they're the truly exceptional cases.
What kind of safeguards do you think should exist for minors who perhaps wrongfully identify as trans, when perhaps they may identify as something else in the future?
Or perhaps a better rephrasing, what are the medical channels that exist to ensure the minor is 100% trans before they have the ability to access appropriate care?
I appreciate your response and would like to hear more of your thoughts regarding this topic if you're so inclined.
Given the minimal data at this point in time, I think it's difficult to conclude that hormone replacement in minors doesn't have undesired long-term consequences.
To be clear, I'm 100% for adults accessing any care they need and they should have access to it.
Simply looking to be informed on what protections are there for children.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There are numerous safeguards and guidelines already in place specifically to address those concerns, that's why things like bottom surgery don't happen except in the most exceptional of circumstances.
Children don't generally get hormones, either- they get hormonal suppressants to \prevent\ change, but hormone replacement would not start until the late teens.
There are also generally significant requirements for therapy in order for them to access this care at all, and excessive gatekeeping just hampers people from getting the care they need.
The standards of care are widely available if you want to look them up yourself.
There is no legitimate benefit to cis kids in these bills, and there are significant harms done to an already vulnerable population.
Just having these bills proposed is going to be harmful to every trans person in a state, but especially to the kids who just saw their state government say that it's illegal for adults to help and support them... when support is the thing they need the most.
Pushing people through puberty when they know they are trans (no matter if they have the terminology for it or not) is incredibly traumatizing, and physically devastating.
No child should be forced through that if they don't need to be.
The goal should \never\ be that no minor gets care before doctors are 100% sure they're trans (because part of what "trans healthcare" looks like for minors is to allow them to properly explore their feelings before proceeding with more permanent treatment.
That's another thing that makes these bills so menacing- they're sold as preventing things that generally don't happen anyway but they're usually written so that they also criminalize things like therapy to help a kid understand their sense of self.
Since anything relating to trans youth and medical treatment almost inevitably brings out the "kids are being castrated" and "90% of trans kids desist and will regret transition" concern trolling in defense of terrible legislation like this:
The recent surge of attacks on gender affirming care for trans youth have been , the , and the , and are out of line with the medical recommendations of the , the and , the , the , the , and the .
According to the , gender is typically expressed by around age 4.
It probably forms , but it's hard to tell with pre-verbal infants.
And sometimes the gender expressed is not the one typically associated with the child's appearance.
The genders of trans children are as as those of .
has a pretty good overview of why.
, and are the guidelines from the AAP.
TL;DR version - yes, young children can identify their own gender, and some of those young kids are trans.
A child who is Gender A but who is assumed to be Gender B based on their visible anatomy at birth can suffer debilitating distress over this conflict.
The "90% desist" claim is a myth based on debunked studies, and transition is a very long, slow, cautious process for trans youth.
For preadolescents transition is entirely social, and for adolescents the first line of medical care is 100% temporary puberty delaying treatment that has no long term effects.
Hormone therapy isn't an option until their mid teens, by which point the chances that they will "desist" are close to zero.
Reconstructive genital surgery is not an option until their late teens/early 20's at the youngest.
And transition-related medical care is recognized as medically necessary, frequently life saving medical care by every major medical authority.
But if an adolescent starts this treatment, socially transitions (or continues if they have already done so), and by their early/mid-teens they still strongly identify as a gender atypical to their appearance at birth, the chances of them changing their minds later are basically zero.
At that point hormone therapy becomes an option, and even that is still mostly reversible, especially in its early stages.
The only really irreversible step is reconstructive genital surgery and/or the removal of one's gonads, which isn't an option until the patient is in their late teens at the earliest.
Withholding medical care from an adolescent who needs it is not a goddamn neutral option.
Transition is absolutely necessary to keep many trans kids alive.
Without transition a hell of a lot of them commit suicide.
When able to transition rates of suicide attempts drop to the national average.
And when prevented from transitioning or starting treatment until adulthood, those who survive long enough to start at 18+ enter adulthood facing thousands of dollars reconstructive surgery to repair damage that should have been prevented by starting treatment when they needed it.
This is very literally life saving medical care.
If there is even a chance that an adolescent may be trans, there is absolutely no reason to withhold 100% temporary and fully reversible hormone blockers to delay puberty for a little while until they're sure.
This treatment is 100% temporary and fully reversible; it does nothing but buy time by delaying the onset of permanent physical changes.
This treatment is very safe and well known, because it has been used for decades to delay puberty in children who would have otherwise started it inappropriately young.
If an adolescent starts this treatment then realizes medical transition isn't what they need, they stop treatment and puberty picks up where it left off.
There are no permanent effects, and it significantly improves trans youth's mental health and .
And not all that damage can be repaired.
They will carry physical and psychological scars from being forced through the wrong puberty for the rest of their lives.
They were robbed of their adolescence, forced to spend it dealing with the living hell of untreated dysphoria and the wrong puberty, trying to remain sane and alive while their bodies were warped in indescribably horrifying ways.
Even with treatment as adults, some of them will be left permanently, visibly trans.
In addition to the sheer horror of permanently having anatomy inappropriate to your gender, this means they will never have the option of blending into a crowd or keeping their medical history private.
They will be exposed to vastly higher rates of anti-trans harassment, discrimination, abuse, and violence, all because they were denied the treatment they needed when they were young.
This specter of little kids being pressured into transition and rapidly pushed into permanent physical changes is a complete myth.
It just isn't happening.
And this fear-mongering results in nothing except trans youth who desperately do need to transition being discouraged and prevented from doing so.
Withholding medical treatment from an adolescent who desperately needs it is not a neutral option.
The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression.
Early transition , and .
When prevented from transitioning about 40% of trans kids will attempt suicide.
When able to transition that rate drops to the national average.
Trans kids who socially transition early, have access to appropriate transition related medical treatment, and who are not subjected to abuse or discrimination are.
Transition , and the farther along in transition someone is the lower that risk gets.
The ability to transition, along with family and social acceptance, are the .