In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Many people think that impartiality is the same thing as being non-partisan.
The appointment of the special counsel was a mistake because it is nothing more than an effort to control perception, not reality.
There is no parallel between Biden and Trump in this matter.
Stating as such doesn’t make you partisan.
Pretending like there is simply to appear nonpartisan is an abandonment of objectivity.
That is incorrect… the law states that you’re not allowed to handle classified materials outside of a secure location.
They don’t often prosecute based around that wording of the espionage act.
Usually it has to do with intent, and whether or not they prosecute.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I think assigning special counsel, and a trump hire to boot, was a smart call.
It will inevitably be decided that what Biden did was careless but not illegal and let this blow over.
The right already thinks Biden is senile and careless so it makes no difference to them, but it controls optic for left and independent that he makes mistakes but will still do the right thing to correct his mistakes.
They would not have appointed a special counsel in this scenario, if that wasn’t the case.
I’m not saying that he’ll get prosecuted because it is the status quo not to in the scenario unless there’s intent.
Not according to the actual word of the law.
It's only against the law if you take classified document without proper authorization w intent to keep em.
You described the perception I mentioned.
Without Trumps document investigations, Biden’s conduct doesn’t warrant a special counsel.
The fact that Trump is being investigated shouldn’t dictate whether Biden deserves a special counsel.
The only reason it has risen this level is because of another high profile classified documents case.