I wasn’t able to write my usual update yesterday because of the yet another big missile strike on our energy infrastructure.
Kharkiv wasn’t even targeted this time (or maybe it was, but every missile that went here was shot down), but we still lost our electricity and everything else along with it.
This was the longest blackout so far; it lasted for 26 hours here, from 2:30pm yesterday to 4:30pm today.
What sucks the most is that it’s not just electricity that stops during a blackout like this, but also water, heating and internet.
Our building does not use gas, so we can’t even cook anything or boil water, and also because electricity is down you can’t even buy anything in a store unless you have physical money, as card readers don’t work even if the store has backup generators because the entire system is down.
The real life saver for us was the portable/camping gas stove that uses small gas tanks for fuel, though we completely emptied the last gas tank we had.
They (450ml gas tanks) only last for about 4 hours of continuous burning, which is completely fine when you only use them occasionally, but they don’t last if you use them non-stop like we did just now.
So hopefully the next missile strike won’t come too soon and we would be able to deal with it better, or we won’t even have anything to eat/drink.
It also appears that a lot of people are still without electricity around the country.
Something like 70% of people in Dnipro and Odesa are still without electricity, but it’s getting fixed pretty fast.
What I fear is that with the speed that we are receiving new air defense now, there won’t be anything left to protect with it by the time we can “close the sky”.
Those little camping stoves are awesome for power outtages, but make sure they are ventilated and away from anything flammable.
Don't want to accidentally asphyixiate or set your place on fire.
If you can get vegetable oil or something like that you might be able to prevent water from freezing with oil lamps.
Need to be careful though and would likely have to do it outside.