In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Reminder: the only person in the world who would sign off on loans for Trump did so because they were backed by Russian money -- that person at Deutschebank was the son of former Supreme Court Justice Kennedy.
look, I don't know Joe Merlino ok, I barely know him, and they say there's a Picture, but maybe someone should tell the Fake News that I'm very rich and very famous, I take a lot of pictures with a lot of people believe me, they're always coming up to me, "Mr. President, Sir, thank you for saving America, can we please please get a picture?"
I said not a problem, and even the Big Strong Men, very strong and tall and better looking than Brad Pitt, they come up, tears in their eyes, "thank you Sir for saving our Factories and our Military, we'd be nothing without you Sir," and I said that's probably true.
I came in, Obama left us with nothing, we had no Military, no Army Tanks, we were even out of Ammo I hate to say, but on Day One I already had our Military at 100% Ready.
you don't get that with the Democrats, they only want to tax you to death and make everybody act like Sleepy Joe is King of America.
it's a disgrace, a complete and total disgrace what they're doing to the Presidency.
we've never suffered more.
ok, have a nice time, you're welcome.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yea but Hunter was reading emails on a tarmack somewhere during an oil coke orgy with Chinese-Ukrainian hookers so can we Benghazi back to what is important here?
Kennedy, who did not appear to be planning for retirement, and had actually already selected court clerks for the next year, suddenly changed his mind after a visit from the former President.
I just hope Trump gets charged with actual crimes before he dies "of natural causes" and if not, he needs post-humous crimes to confirm even death doesn't clear you from "selling out the US of A.
".
Nah, it just bought sloppy seconds at Mar-a-Lago.
Whoever wanted to see those docs got free access for MONTHS.
Russian intel agents were in and out there for his entire un-"presidency".