Pretty cool that you can see so many relics from a disparate array of cultures all under a single, world renowned, easily accessible museum and don't have to spend a fortune to visit all of those countries.
Comparing a car to a historical artifact is the false equivalency.
Particularly when the culture that produced that artifact has been dead for hundreds or thousands of years.
And what about the people who are actually from those countries where all the looted artefacts came from?
Why do you think they have to spend a fortune traveling to see their own artefacts?
And they would be wrong.
Being conquered and having something taken is in fact part of the history of that thing.
Violence is the supreme authority from which all other authority is derived.
No one likes to get the shit end of the stick, but someone always does.
That's why some nations were colonizers/conquerors, and others were the colonized/conquered.
Egypt was once the greatest empire in the world, same with Persia, Greece, China, Rome, Mongolia, ad nauseam, they aren't anymore.
I'm sure the people in those regions would love to restore their former glory, but times have changed.
And they will change again.
What excuse?
That is the way it was, and every global power ever did it.
Welcome to the fucking species, boys & girls.
People just want an alternate history where borders/cultures never changed, while ignoring that the strife is how we got here.
Depends if they have any actual connection to the artifact other than occupying the same land.
e.g.
modern Egypt/Greece have no cultural or religious connection to their antiquitous namesakes.
Imagine thinking these things while using an electronic device that was definitely not manufactured on land you have a claim to.
Imagine thinking that because you live on a plot of land, you have sole ownership of everything that ever originated or was created on that plot of land no matter how many thousands of years have passed.
Imagine thinking that the possessor of such an object was a thief, even though they were given that object by another person who almost certainly had permission from the then owner of the land to remove the object.
Perhaps the British Museum can retain ownership and loan them "permanently" to the Acropolis Museum in Athens.
I am sure most Greeks would not mind a tiny plaque beside them that says "On loan from the British Museum, London.
".