No no see there's this bank I heard of in Deutschland that will do aaaanything for money, no matter how many times they get caught or fined for money laundering.
Can anyone from Deutschland help me remember what this bank is called?
It's right on the tip of my fingers...
The CEB is raising rates, too, though.
I think they started later but it's 0.5 or greater point hikes each cycle.
I looked up the Swedish central bank and it's also been raising rates aggressively for a couple of months.
Every currency is in "free fall" against the USD, and comparing the IRR against EUR, JPY, AUD, etc., it's barely budged compared to other currencies.
A more accurate headline would be that the USD jumped again, which is an expected reaction to FED rate hikes.
Official exchange rates are not relevant due to sanctions.
The exchanges are done on the black market at a rate not even close to the one you linked.
The currency has dropped 10x towards the dollar over the last 5-6 years and official exchange has hardly moved.
If the president decides to ignore Congress, and the military and cabinet decide to stay with him, there's nothing Congress or the supreme court can do.
Then the only recourse is having the states amend the constitution and hoping the reforms work.
It's also one of the criticisms of a non-parliamentary government.
The cabinet, who actually run the government, are not elected but picked by the president, who happens to be the head of the executive government, also the head of state, and the commander of the military.
Sure, the Senate has to approve cabinet members, but it's rare that the Senate rejects a candidate.
Even though there's a mechanism for Congress to remove a cabinet member in theory, it's difficult and has never been done.
The cabinet will support the president in all but the most egregious circumstances.
It because extremely apparent when you visit Iran.
At least in Tehran 90% of the women you see on the streets wear their hijab as loosely as they can and have done so for years.
Hell, even my religious mother-inlaw removes it the second she leaves the country nowadays.
Compare to the UK.
The PM isn't the head of the army or state.
They form a government from elected PMs.
A government which would likely be dysfunctional won't even try to form, so parties make coalitions.
And multiple parties end up with cabinet positions.
Because they are elected, they are far less likely to be loyal to the PM.
By all accounts, the Tory MPs loved Johnson.
But the cabinet MPs were worried about their seats if they stuck with him, so they resigned and left his cabinet to save their reputation.
And Johnson couldn't have a working government.
He was forced out by his cabinet.
He's not the head of the military.
He can't even form his own government, he had to get permission from the Queen.