And lose the nukes.
This is the only way to stop this war.
There will be an ongoing shelling and gaslighting until Russia believes it is strong enough to attack again.
EU / NATO must adopt the standing to not allow Russia back into the world financial system until the nukes are gone.
Now is the time.
The first fellow said much of the damage was unnecessary.
I asked why any of it was necessary because I think that the whole war was not necessary.
You chimes in that 100% of the war was necessary.
Do you understand now?
"We will have peace.
Yes, we will have peace, we will have peace, when you and all your works have perished--and the works of your dark master to whom you would deliver us ...
When you hang from a gibbet at your window for the sport of your own crows, I will have peace with you ... A lesser son of great sires am I, but I do not need to lick your fingers.
Turn elsewhither.
But I fear your voice has lost its charm.
".
I don’t see the war lasting beyond 2023.
Russia is crippled in terms of manpower, equipment, economic capability, and in their ability to launch mass missile strikes against Ukraine.
Russia at the start of the war was launching a lot of missiles to attack civilian targets and infrastructure.
Now it takes Russia days to build up a large enough missile stockpile and of the missiles that do get launched, close to 90%+ are getting intercepted and shot down by Ukraine.
If Ukraine accepts it will only embolden Russia to go home, rebuild and rearm, and come back in a few years to take the rest of Ukraine.
And it will open Pandora’s Box that any dictator can threaten nuclear war while invading its neighbor in order to get what they want.
Fuck that and fuck anyone who advocates for Ukraine surrendering to Russia’s insane demands.
Russia is losing the war and is in no position to make the demands that they are.
Hell… they don’t even fully control the areas they are demanding outside of Crimea.
So unless Russia learns to compromise their troops will continue dying until they are pushed out of Ukraine.
The war right now is at a semi-stalemate since neither side can really advance in the mud.
But once the ground freezes and especially once we get into spring after the ground thaws and isn’t muddy is when we’ll see Ukraine push another offensive to take back the rest of their land.
Also, Russia’s actions about wanting peace are a load of bullshit and is them wanting a ceasefire over the holidays so they can rearm, reinforce, and prepare a new spring offensive.
Ukraine isn’t falling for that and is going to keep hammering them while Russian troops that do not have proper winter gear will freeze to death.
The terms that Putin wants is that Russia wins and gets to keep all of the annexed land, even land that they currently do not control (see Kherson and Zaporizhzia as examples).