In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This is repesentative of how co-workers at my workplace hide equipment because they think we're hiding them, and now both shifts have no equipment to use because it's all hidden everywhere.
Being malicious does absolutely nothing for anybody.
I think its perfectly fair to call Cult members who actively commit actions to harm other human beings crazy people.
Its one thing to be in a cult and bully locals or excommunicate a family member.
Its another to undermine democratic institutions or shoot nail guns at the FBI.
That’s hoarding behavior driven by an economy of scarcity.
You can fix it by oversupplying briefly to create a sense of plenty.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Of course if you’re talking about $100k tools rather than bags of chips in the break room, it’s probably a different matter.
We have a lock in / lock out system for our equipment that is no longer functional, so as a result there isn't any reprimand for "losing" the equipment.
This has driven the employees to a) leave the equipment in and around the workplace area instead of lock them back in, or b) hide the equipment out of fear that someone else manages to lose them.
If we oversupply with the equipment, it will take a matter of days before that supply ends up where the rest of the supply is.
Hidden.
That's all I'm trying to illustrate.
Regardless of the underlying cause.
Committing action detrimental to society based on one false source is just crazy.
Thats all I'm saying.
I've lived among Southern baptist my entire life.
I'm in one of the megachurch capitals of the world.
I understand how it happens.
But the people its happening to, who bring their illfound beliefs into real world action with real world consequences are crazy people.
Both things can be true.
Charles Manson was using effective propaganda techniques to form a cult.
The people in the cult were still crazy people.
I'm not at all new to religious communities.
Religious zealotry taken to the point of human harm is just crazy, regardless of how long standing a tradition it is.
Ok not crazy if you strictly limit your news and media consumption to one source only and willfully tune out the vast variety of extra data points and platforms debunking the Fox News lies.
But sure its not crazy that a crazy person that only listens to one source completely beleives only that source that retracted their own lies.
I've brought this issue up with management multiple times and their only recommendation is for our shift to be "honest and responsible" with how the equipment is used.
No inquiry into the missing or hidden equipment.
Nothing.
Buying more equipment means a .1% cut in their 250k bonus.
Can't have that.