It's a consequence of having a culture of lying.
Under the Soviet regime, being unproductive was a punishable offense, so people got in the habit of lying to make themselves look better.
Workers lied about how much they did, managers lied about how much material and manpower they needed, and thr military lied about readiness levels.
I am pretty sure that at this point even of the grid hermits living in the mountains who come down to trade once every couple of months are aware how poorly the Russian military is doing.
When you make failure punishable by pain and imprisonment, everyone begins lying about their performance.
When your military intelligence is corrupted by these lies, the entire system becomes lemmings running off a cliff.
Well when your around sycophants constantly you probably get used to all the praise and adoration you constantly receive almost to the point where you can’t live without it.
It’s not self defeating for Putin because he’s rich and doesn’t care what happens to Russia as long as he’s the richest person there.
Putin inherited this system, and has done very little to reform it.
Cultures like this are hard to break down for a few reasons.
First is that honesty gets penalized in these systems.
A person who honestly reports that they are not performing well when everyone else is lying looks like the problem.
That person will not be promoted or rewarded for their honesty, they'll just kneecap their career.
Second, honest people in dishonest cultures are the enemy of everyone profiting from dishonesty.
The whistleblower who says the soldiers are poorly trained, the units don't have equipment, and the vehicles don't have gas is now the enemy of the general telling President Putin that the army is perfectly prepared to invade Ukraine, the mid level officers who are trying to advance their careers with glowing reports that go unquestioned, and even the conscripted soldiers who would rather say they went out and did drills than actually have to go out and exercise.