NK "We're actively practicing to nuke SK and US... and we're flying our mssiles over Japan because we can".
Also NK: "Those exercises between SK and US in SK no where near the border are a clear and direct threat, why would they do such a thing??!
".
Propaganda at its finest.
Sad thing is some western people, some South Koreans and Americans actually believe in Kim's words.
Thats why Putin does not have any regrets in lying, he knows some dumb western guy will believe in him no matter what.
Even if all hell breaks loose (conventional warfare) and NK attacks SK, while China goes for Taiwan, US and allies should come out on top.
SK can basically deal with NK alone.
The big question is how much damage the artillery along the border can do before it is neutralized.
SK should have pretty good data on where any NK nuclear launches would originate from, and are probably able to take out those sites pretty quickly.
So the US would probably help more with defending Taiwan, and seeing as they manage to prop up Ukraine very well without even involving themselves directly, this is well within the scope of what the US military is funded/trained/equipped to deal with.
It is the only military in the world that has a stated goal of being able to win two full scale military conflicts in different parts of the world at the same time.
(Which makes me glad to live in an allied country, but apprehensive when i look at the derangement of the republican party over time).
The bigger threat at this point is not really the artillery, which will certainly hurt - it's the emerging SRBM threat.
Even if we don't think that SK can credibly miniaturize their warheads yet, it's pretty clear that Russia has been holding their hand in all this, and is very likely not above simply providing them warheads if push comes to shove.
What is actually killing a lot of marine life right now is the intense use of sonars in the Black Sea, combined with pollution from ships sunk there.
If you want to get a bit depressed, look up the effect of sonars on whales.
Even if they believe it, what behavior is it supposed to induce?
As if anyone in Korea or the US is going to just be like "ok, well I guess we should give the madman what he wants.
".
That's never been how it works.
Even liberals in the west are like "fuck that noise, how much does a bigger stick cost?
".
The ocean is big.
BIG.
And although whales are bigger than people (possibly except OPs mom), they are tiny and very much spread out when you compare it to the sea.
The odds of hitting whales are astronomical.
Also, I didn't actually say whales were killed in the black sea.
I said marine life was killed there, then I mentioned sonars being bad for whales.
That last part was more a general statement.