They developed it in a multi million gold bar business.
Making money on the slaves, making money on the sugar plantations, making money on shipping it worldwide, just a general big money earner for the Netherlands back in the day.
When will the africans apologize for selling all their own race off?
The tribes would sell of slaves (Spoils of war) for guns, food, etc.
Since currency wasn't a huge thing there.
Because there wasn't any, countries at the time.
More large tribal and nomadic of the African continent.
But these tribes traded away most of their slaves (spoils of war) to Europeans for weapons, food and other luxuries.
There were kingdoms at the time in Africa, like in much of Europe.
The Kingdom of Kongo is the most well-known example of an African kingdom whose kings were enriched by the slave trade.
Other examples include the Ashanti and Benin kingdoms.
When will white people stop deflecting when other people push colonizing nations to make amends for the injustices they perpetuated?
Some Africans participated in the slave trade, yes, but by no means was it all African peoples.
Some Africans actively fought it.
The Christian king of Kongo even petitioned a European power to end it.
Not to mention, I don’t think any of the enslaved people were fond of the institution.
Nor were their descendants.
On top of all this, let’s remember who it was that maintained slavery over the centuries and who “refined” it into a particularly brutal and race-based caste system.
It wasn’t Africans, who were also brutally colonized and genocided, but white people.
So let’s stop repeating these racist gotchas, and move towards a more equitable and just world together.
Yes, but none of this negates the particular brutality of the trans-Atlantic slave trade.
Arab nations should also recognize their role in the slave trade and their current anti-Black sentiments as well.
You are either a poser, or you have internalized the vitriol of racism.
I hope it is the first, but if it is the second, I encourage you to learn a little bit more about African history and the impacts of both the slave trade and colonialism.
Maybe enroll in an African / African American History class.
So you think Africans and the African diaspora are better off today after centuries of enslavement, racial profiling, redlining, lynching, race riots, economic extraction, and so forth than if slavery never occurred, Africa was never colonized, and Black people developed according to their own terms?
I’m sorry but that’s hard to believe, and I’m afraid most other people of African descent do not feel the same.
But even if it somehow did end up better for Africans, that still doesn’t make white people’s actions justified or any less deserving of apology.
That’s like if someone took a bullet for you and saved your life and you said to their family, “Stop crying over them, cuz at least I’m alive.” Like, yeah, it’s cool that they saved your life, but the fact the other person is dead is still a tragedy and the shooter needs to be reprimanded.