In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The cherry on the cake is that the Q propagandists (who are incredibly good at what they do, given the market they are targeting), cover their bases by making a dozen predictions each day.
Then when one comes true they say ‘SEE We were right so we’ll be right about the others too”.
Broken clock theory at its finest.
“It’s gonna happen, these things take time.
You just wait” - my QAnon friend, who has discovered infinite patience he never knew he had before.
Though, it’s not really patience I suppose; it’s more like the parent jingling keys in front of the baby to make it forget why it’s crying.
“Hey, why didn’t that 100% certain prediction come true?” “Don’t worry, it will, but have you heard about this thing you need to be angry about??
It’s shocking Get angry!”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I know.
They said nothing could stop the storm.
But remember these are the same people who have been waiting over 2000 years for the return of the dude who was supposed to come back 2000 years ago.
They started out with very specific predictions (x event will happen on this exact date) and then kept being more and more vague.
For a few months now my buddy has basically stopped passing them on, but at one point he’d say ‘something big is supposed to happen tomorrow.
You’ll be sorry for ever doubting.’ I’d ask him what was going to happen and he would just repeat that there’s murmurs of something big doing down.
Apparently that’s all it takes to keep them tuning in for more.
‘Something big could happen tomorrow or maybe next week or the month after!’ Which could literally be anything.
The shotgun approach to prognosticating.
> Several media figures on the far right were hyping the case in the days leading up to Monday’s decision, including some prominent influencers in the QAnon conspiracy theory movement.
For over a year these people would tell me they were making popcorn in order to watch all the trials they promised me were going to happen within days.
I don’t think they talk about making popcorn anymore but they’re still sure it’s going to happen any day now.
They’ve sunk so much time and effort into believing this shit and doing their own “research” into it that they can’t now admit it was all a foolish waste of time.
Imagine having to face the reality that he’s spent thousands of hours for nothing (being fooled).
He can’t do it.
At this point he’s need a detox and deprogramming therapy, which to him would be literally joining Satan worshipers.
Not figuratively; he believes Dems and anyone rich or anyone who provides conflicting information to be influenced by Satan or evil Jews or the new world order or Bill Gates or Soros, etc.
When Trump was considering his presidential run, Rush Limbaugh made some headlines for saying that listeners don’t care about facts, they care about what they believe.
At the time this seemed a bit shocking, but it was absolutely prescient.
Of course not.
My childhood friend has been indoctrinated for the past 2.5 years.
He’s a seasonal worker who doesn’t love to work.
So when he isn’t working (half the year) he’s listening to 4-6 hours per day of this propaganda.
He has podcasts and YouTube videos in one ear while he falls asleep, or while he watched sports or plays video games, but mostly while he scrolls his Instagram and Telegram and Signal apps.