That would require Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and the GOP not opposing the feds extraditing Bolsonaro from Florida back to Brazil, which is looking increasingly unlikely.
Republicans are spinning calls for Bolsonaro's extradition as "Democrat propaganda".
All Brazil needs to do is demand they expedite him, then nothing Defuckwad says will matter as we have an extradition treaty with Brazil.
We cannot refuse and vice versa.
Pretty much.
He was a sheriff in deadwood, a marshall in Justified and Fargo, and in Mandalorian, he worked as a sheriff of a small town but held the title of Marshall.
No it will be a dick-measuring contest between Florida state authorities and the feds.
And the result will be that Bolsonaro gets to stay.
Watch and see.
It basically means that if they call for it we can’t refuse to send him back to Brazil.
Unless he has some life threatening problem he can and would be sent back, also there is no real political advantage to keeping him here, after all the party of leopards ate my face love eating each other.
I live in America, even if republicans wanted to refuse it wouldn’t get them jack squat.
Republicans are easy to figure out as they only care about three things.
Pissing off “libs”, hating anyone that isn’t republican and listening to their corporate masters.
The third one being the most important as causing international strife with Brazil would cause business from Brazil to take a hit, why bother protecting 1 man and losing millions when you can sacrifice him and keep the money flowing in after all.
I once again state, America has the extradition treaty and is required by international law to capitulate upon request.
Sure some politicians might try something stupid but it would only endanger their positions and their parties waning hold on both the house and senate.
I ask you this, why would the political party that is danger of loosing their power in the country going to help someone that has no political advantages, money, power or use?