The nation of 1.2B people has a GDP smaller than California's.
To be blunt, they're too poor to be a superpower.
We can probably blame that on the British, but that doesn't change the reality of their situation.
They have a lot of work to do to catch up even to China, both economically and militarily.
Per capita India is poor, but otherwise they sit neatly between a Major power and a Great power, so saying they "Will be" a Great Power is about right.
Edit: In hindsight, we clearly overestimated the Russians.
Frankly China is the only nation that's anywhere close to being on the same level as the US, and they're a looooong way off militarily.
Their belt and road initiative is interesting though, and my concern is that they may be able to outpace us economically and geopolitically to such an extent that our military advantage stops mattering.
A Major Power is one with a large regional influence and some global influence.
A Great Power is one with large global influence, in particular the ability to use economic and/or military power to significantly alter or control smaller countries.
Countries like France and Germany are 'only' Major Powers, partially by choice, but the EU as a whole can be counted as a Great Power.
India is not close to doing either of those things, and neither is Russia.
The only way the global order flips in the near future is if the US collapses.
The US and China are Great Powers.
Russia was considered a Great Power but its failures in Ukraine and relegation to pariah state are reducing it to Major Power status.
Britian has Brexited itself down to Major Power status and frankly....it's barely that at this point.
It has the GDP, but it's barely a player in EU politics let alone the world.
Still, that's probably temporary and I consider it a Major Power.
In the US you could probably consider California a Major Power just because of the combination of population, economic power, cultural and coastal dominance, but I'd be hesitant to include any other state.
Despite Japan's high GDP and relative prosperity, they don't have a lot of regional, global, or military influence, so I'm not sure I'd even call them a Major Power, though they're building up their military in a way that says they want to change that.