That's true.
But it seems like less and less companies are allowing it.
At the same time companies are either laying people off or aren't hiring.
At some point you might not want to work in an office (not saying you particularly) but someone else will - whether the want to or not.
Just out of necessity.
Think the most difficult part about bringing people into the office is that many people have sold their home and moved out of the city, state, or in some cases the country.
They moved to more affordable areas.
That 100k they were making in California goes a hell of a lot further in Mexico.
So having them just "show up" at work on Monday is a lot more complicated then these companies might think.
Although I know for a fact - some of these companies that allowed people to work for home required them to stay locally.
My brother and his wife both have remote jobs and they were supposed to stay in the immediate area and be available to go into the office at any time.
That was like the 1 stipulation to working from home.
If they were leaving the area they were supposed to notify their manager ahead of time and get it approved.
There is a competition thing here - the question is whether remote companies can out compete "on site" companies or vice versa.
On site companies are gambling that offices increase worker productivity enough to make up for these obvious financial advantages.
I'd say in specific industries where the companies is partly trading on grandure, like investment banking, it's super important to have a huge office block full of people in suits.
But for back office work and less grand companies that put a lot of their staff in suburban offices and second tier cities, that isn't so important.
More broadly, I wonder if WFH is such a victory for employees as they think it is right now.
Feels like it leads to an averaging down of salaries where Americans need to compete directly with labour in other countries, and an increase in expectations in terms of midnight meetings and "hit your targets or be fired regardless of the circumstances because just being present isn't measured anymore".
If we stop overpaying certain employees just for showing up and wasting time, then that is if not a win for the rest of us then at least not a loss.
Same with not paying incompetent people more just because they've chosen to live somewhere expensive.
As a developer working from home, I welcome this competition.
I believe that the education I got in my country (I think that Swedish education is heavily focused on independent problem solving skills compared to many countries with lower salaries) makes me pretty competitive also on an international market, and I trust that my employer is selective enough to be aware of that.
If my assumption about my education turns out to be wrong, and someone in a cheaper country can do my job better than me, it means that I'll have to try harder to beat the competition, and that's fair.
If my assumption about my employer is wrong and they want to replace me with someone less competent, that's on them, I'll find a better place to work.
I'm also eligible to work for a much larger amount of companies, both domestic and foreign.
I agree with everything you said, but especially with this last part.
People are fighting for their jobs to go remote - but I'm not too sure they realize what they're setting themselves up for.
Right now if you office is in Houston, you're only competing with other people living in Houston.
If your jobs goes remote - we'll now your company can just hire anyone in the world.
You might have been good at your job, making 100k a year.
But that company can now turn around and find someone else good enough in another part of the world - maybe India (or whatever) who is willing to do that same job for 20k a year.
Companies have already been doing this for years to cut costs.
Imo You're just setting yourself up.
There's at least some job security working in an office.
More so then working from home.
I've seen some other comments where people are "welcoming" the competition.
Well if you live in a cheaper area and are willing or able to work for less then why wouldn't you welcome it?
If I was living in Honduras then sure - bring it on.
That's just opportunity for me.
But if I'm living in the States, especially an expensive city, then I'm not so sure it's a good idea.
If going into the office means keeping my job - let's do it.
Outsourcing has been a thing for ever, and the way it worked for say factory workers is, one day your office just closed.
You didn't have the choice to (yuck) take a real terms pay cut or (yuck) move to a lower cost area.
I kind of stand by my last point though because remote work makes us all just faces on a screen.
We aren't always at our best - a rough few weeks after a bereavement or a project where nothing goes right.
Continued employment based on results rather than \[being present and trying to do what you are supposed to do\] is all very well when the minimum expectations are low.
You hear about all these over employed people holding down a bunch of jobs and remote programmers working a few hours a day and going to the poool - I think in this labour shortage time, expectations are often pretty low.
Remember in 2008 when they fired half the people and we all had to do 3 peoples jobs?
And you wondered if you were next?