Indigenous communities have been fighting for centuries but still get massive backlash and hostility.
You cant even talk about indigenous political stances because decolonization politics attacks the foundations of pretty much the entire political world.
Say Identity Politics in the Americas has roots in racial essentialism and erases indigenous culture to just "genetics", and that gender theory appropriates indigenous concepts like two spirited people without actually understanding the concept and you get in trouble with people who talk over feelings of Indigenous people.
Its hard to find political support when there is so much institutional hostility and these institutions literally do not think of the world the same way.
An interview with an indigenous author had the interviewer ask if she was not "happy civilization lifted everyone out of poverty" instead of being pro-environment.
Could you explain how "non-indigenous" gender theory appropriates indigenous gender theory?
I've never met a 2S person who thought this way about it at all.
I will agree that it would be appropriative for "two-spirit" to be used outside its own culture, and as a trans person, I don't.
The identity politics part is what gets most people, especially Americans, because what makes an identity changes on who you talk to.
Race essentialists say identity is tied to genetics, this is why there are so many people who will call themselves something based on a genetics test.
In other places, identity is tied to language, place, and culture.
So you can imagine how it looks to a German to see an American call themselves German because they passed the genetic "purity test".
This thinking goes back to old racism and eugenic arguments that still exist today.
The same applies here, being indigenous is more than just genetics.
Identity is tied to culture, which is built on a very specific philosophy on life and spirituality that sees the world very different from the western world built on Christianity, Judaism, and western philosophy.
So by making identity tied to genetics, you are erasing the importance of culture and erase indigenous culture with it not realizing how important it is that these customs and beliefs are passed on.
This is how you get what is known in Mexico as "pochos", people whose only connection to the identity is genetic.
There is no cultural knowledge, no ability to speak or read the language, and worst of all no desire to learn them.
Not all nations in North and South America follow the genetic identity belief, but its common enough it creates major backlash when trying to protect indigenous cultural practices because the society surrounding them does not value that kind of identity.
Im from Peru that Country is a shit show, they dont care about people outside Capital of Lima, President Runners only go to these places for votes giving them false hope , it so fucking sad that even people that have money are not able to help them.
Arequipa is trying to do their own shit and it kind of works for them.
Peru is Corrupted af.