In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
To add on to the other poster, pull the old "did you know MTG was cum laude from some University, can't remember, with a double major in economics and international relations?
I think that makes her beyond qualified for politics, don't you agree?
".
The more I hear from AOC the more I understand why the right is so afraid of her.
She’s genuinely impressive, intelligent, and has actual policy ideas.
They have MGT and Bobert who are barely literate bigoted trash monsters.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I have had that very conversation before.
I bring up her credentials and am met with “but she’s a BARTENDER.”.
Then wait for him to slobber all over her, and drop the "wait, i just checked to make sure which university it was, and it was actually AOC who graduated cum laude.
".
It's always a double standard with them.
Tell them her life story but say it was some billionaire, or a prominent republican politician, and they will gush over hwo great that person is.
The minute you tell them it is AOC, or a democrat, they call that person the devil and back track.
Like they think busting your ass bartending in college and with a degree to pay the student loans she needed is some kind of sign that she’s trash?
I find it so odd the way they try to discredit her for having work ethic.
Like bartending is somehow frowned upon.
I did it for 13 years and am certain none of the folks that shit on bartenders would last five minutes behind a busy bar.
They are all about hard work and pulling up your bootstraps, until it is someone not in their "in group" then any and all criticism is fair, no matter how hypocritical.
If you had a republican and democrat committ the same crime, together, under the exact same circumstances, they'd call for the republican to be let off the hook and the democrat imprisoned for life.
To add on to the other poster, pull the old "did you know MTG was cum laude from some University, can't remember, with a double major in economics and international relations?
I think that makes her beyond qualified for politics, don't you agree?
".
I see that.
I can agree that it is not a good way to refer to people.
I was more referring to the statement about MTG though, clearly.
I didn’t reduce them to their looks.
I explicitly said their relative looks are a contributing factor, not the entire point.
I don’t even bring it up at all until someone else does; my first comment is all about AOC being more intelligent and have actual policy ideas when compared to the bigoted idiots on tbe right.
Then wait for him to slobber all over her, and drop the "wait, i just checked to make sure which university it was, and it was actually AOC who graduated cum laude.
".
Really Alexandria is a target because she’s a woman.
There are other congresspeople who are smart and full of good ideas but aren’t women so Republicans can’t just sicc their base of misogynistic trolls on them.
Well yeah it definitely doesn’t help them that she’s a 10 while the best they can do is a skanky escort and goonfaced KKKrossfit.
This is such a silly comment.
Boebert and MTG are genuinely dangerous people, because of the horrible shit they say, and in MTG’s case because she has become an influential person in the party.
And bringing those comments and beliefs to light isn’t rage bait, it’s reporting.
There’s no filter to make them look bad, this is just who they are.
That’s just not true.
She’s doing exactly what a Republican politician needs to do to climb the ranks.
Read this from Axios to get up to speed:
Okay we just learned that “centrists” aren’t really a thing.
And if she wasn’t anyone to worry about they wouldn’t attack her so much.
The fact that the right has dedicated so much time and money to fight her is because they fear her.
AOC’s representation in the right wing media however is a sexist, racist distortion of someone who is actually competent.
They’re afraid of her because of that competency.
She’s progressive and popular and there isn’t one Republican in the House who can stand against her rhetorically.
And I’m not talking about the average Fox News viewer.
I’m talking about the establishment.
They know she’s a threat to them so they have to smear her.
Besides being an early supporter and current mentor of hers, Jordan is essentially just MTG a few years down the line.
He’s what she’s trying to become, and there’s no reason she can’t.
The Trump drubbing may have cooled her off a bit, but getting friendly with McCarthy is exactly how she balances that act.
Imagine, after living through George W Bush and Donald Trump, believing an politician has to be intelligent to be dangerous.
Holy shit.
I’m aware of her general polling numbers.
Have you not followed politics very long?
People who call themselves centrists are almost exclusively right wingers with delusions of objectivity.
Especially in the online sphere.
“Easily smeared” hundreds of thousands of hours have been dedicated in online, radio, and television spaces to attacking her.
They “work” the same way they work against Hillary, or Obama, or Biden.
When groups with money target a politician, they sway public opinion.
The difference is that Donald Trump was elected and MTG’s brand of lunacy was suddenly the new Republican center.
The Democrats haven’t had their progressive President and their leftwards shift.
She’s unpopular with “centrists” meaning far right shitheels who pretend they’re centrists, and establishment Democrats.
And she’s unpopular precisely because of the smear campaigns by Republicans.