auto-translates a lot of the milblogger posts to english with no need to sign up.
Ctrl+F "Makiivka" should yield some results, maybe you'll have to go back to yesterday's messages.
Mostly because we realized it's kinda pointless.
It takes a lot of fuel and a long time to get to that speed, and in actual war, it's rarely useful.
Nearly every fighter and interceptor in Vietnam was capable of Mach 2, and almost none of them ever spent much time even just over Mach 1.5.
That having been said, the F-15, F-16, and F-22 can all still do it, so it's not like it's a rare thing these days either.
It's just not really a handicap in terms of actual combat effectiveness either that the F-35 and F/A-18 can't.
I’m aware, but to say Mach 2 is kinda pathetic as if there are planes going faster just simply isn’t accurate.
I agree that bragging about the mig 31 isn’t that bug of a flex but there is people in here who clearly arnt aware that planes arnt just flying around at Mach 2.5 easily.
Yeah, to be fair, the 16 is only a mach 2 plane when clean, and even then just barely, but hey, it technically counts.
(The 22 apparently has no trouble at all getting to mach 2 though, and the 15 is the fastest of the current US fighters, at least officially, at mach 2.5).
Nah, we just realized there are other things more important than top speed in a fighter.
The F-22 can do 2.25, the F-35 can only do 1.6, the F/A-18 can do 1.8, the F-15 can do 2.5, but all of them would demolish Russian planes in actual combat.
We already had a Mach 3.3 capable plane in the 60s, so we've had the tech forever, it just turns out that speed alone isn't that helpful in combat any more.
You're right in that those speeds are historically possible, like the SR-71 Blackbird was around Mach 3 or 4 when it came out in the 60s, but engineers have deemed it unnecessary for modern fighter jets.
The tradeoffs just aren't worth it, especially now that missile and radar technology (and the ability to share that data) has come so far where modern jets have no problem engaging outside of visual range, making dogfights essentially obsolete.