The last victim shot on Christmas Day was a rapper and connected to several prominent gangs and had earlier been convicted of violent crimes.
He was also with rapper Einár at the time of his murder and was still a suspect in the investigation.
When asked what to do about the surge in gang violence by newspaper Expressen he stated: "Låt oss äta varandra tills vi är slut."
or "Let us eat each other until we are no more.
".
Have you had any strategies that worked better than others?
Here we have free healtchare, free education (we actually get paid by the government to study, and can borrow even more money at fixed rates as students), social welfare and law that mandates that kids attend school (so parents can't deprive kids of the opportunity).
We also have programs to help criminals readjust.
I know some say legalization would be key to solving things (since our ndrug policies are a bit archaic), but according to other reports the gangs are already making a lot of their money through other means.
For example fraud of the elderly.
Some have started trawling instagram for expensive watches and just knock on the person's door pretending to be a delivery guy and barge in in the light of day.
Well the thing that has sort of worked sometimes over here is the Financial Intelligence Unit.
They freeze bank assets of cartel leaders and investigate their financial operations.
That being said, defrauding the elderly sounds like a meager source of income for me, over here cartels effectively collect their own form of taxes in some communities.
According to a big newpaper, SvD, they believe fraud conservatively counted made up 3,5 billions of swedish crowns (a dollar is about 10 SEK) in revenue for organized crime, and compared to drug related offenses the punishment for fraud is laughable and not a priority of police.
Journalists found that some gangs even started dealing less drugs, switching over.
Also, you are preying on grandmas and grandpas instead of other hardened criminals so if you are okay with being an utter trash person it seems like a rational choice.