In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Again, this case has no legal standing, and pursuing it only shooting themselves in the fucking foot in many different ways.
It is off the top of my head enforcing no states’ rights and states’ rights at the same time, good job on that.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There is no victim or affected party to bring standing.
It is a bunch of conservatives assholes who are asserting that that maybe some day possibly, this could hurt a patient…maybe.
It undermines religious beliefs that place the life of the mother above the fetus.
There is no one religion in America to merit this complete ban.
They can fail upwards and still be dumb to ramifications and future-scope.
They live in the now, and are just trying to see towards re-election.
Example, there is a bill in my state that is meant to protect health data, all independent from HIPAA.
Apps, websites, metadata are all used to target us.
In Texas, there is a request to see data for people near or around Planned Parenthood.
Alliance Defending Freedom has used similar data to target accounts on FB and other social media accounts to with anti-abortion propaganda to accounts and devices of patients.
These attempts on federally assisted for drugs for medical abortion open the door to other things, like hormones, birth control etc.
that information could be used to deny coverage because it counts smoke breaks or charges for alcohol.
Grindr sold user data on HIV status to insurance companies.
These are the areas we are in because these short sighted assholes live for power, and or kickbacks/bribes.
Oh for sure none of them are thinking lonerm 💯.
That doesn’t make them dumb tho, they’re terrifyingly calculated and it’s successful.
They’re riled up into full on fascism now and that doesn’t end petering out or anything.
Thinking lonerm isn’t practical anymore for anyone so it doesn’t matter.
Fascism isn’t a state that can last lonerm, it’s a shitty transition.
It heats up fast then explodes and hopefully whatever comes next shakes out a little better than we had before.
They are coming to control every aspect of womens' lives.
From the bedroom, to the doctors office to to the boardroom.
Any woman who votes republican needs their head examined.