In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Trump has plenty of lies, and there's no lack of irony to his 2016 slogan being that the Trump Train has no brakes, but on this topic he specifically didn't lie.
Well they are aren't they?
He doesn't lie for their benefit.
He lies so the person who doesn't pay any attention hears someone call him a fascist and thinks to themselves, "Well he can't be that bad or my friend Bob wouldn't have voted for him, Bob's not a bad guy, these people sound crazy".
It's all plausible deniability for people who don't care enough to actually pay attention.
That's how I see it.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There is none to throw.
"I brought them on my plane" one, maybe two, bottles, and a bunch of diet Cokes were on that plane.
I need to see proof of these many many waters in the bottles from the biggest of containers pulled by the rigs.
Since the NTSB isn't making the link and you are, let's see your documentation and justification about the cause and how it relates to specific Trump regulation changes.
The regulation that was dropped during his tenure would not, in any way, have impacted the train derailment in Ohio.
So you have no regulations to point to that Trump cut that specifically impacted the derailment.
You also don't have any specific state regulations that were relaxed directly because of a Trump action.
But, but but, if the brake regulation hadn't been cut and if more regulations that were never enacted... specifically ones that were previously excluded from the actual regulation during previous administrations... if those were enacted, then it might have maybe been different.