There was a post on /r/ukpolitics about how most people would need a £49k salary to be comfortable... the average salary in the UK is £30k.
Like the US it's very location dependant though, living in or around London is insanely more expensive than living in a lot of the northern side of the country.
While cost of living here in the US is still location dependent, even rural areas and states are seeing rising COL.
When everyone began working remote during the pandemic, many folks sought out new full time positions that would allow them to work from anywhere.
This meant folks that work for a high-paying company in California or New York would then move to a rural/sparsely populated state like Iowa to live and maximize their income.
This had the adverse effect of skyrocketing mortgages/rents in the area, making things worse for Iowan natives.
The same can be applied to other areas, sadly.
I still can't wrap my head around this.
£30k is roughly the equivalent of $36,500USD.
In America, that's not even a starting salary for a new college graduate in a white collar position.
I know things like healthcare in the UK are "free", but is the overall cost of living there substantially less than what it is in the US?
It used to be a lot cheaper.
Now it's getting more and more unaffordable.
UK rent was a lot lower in the past and with raising costs on food, luxury goods and energy with little to no improvement in salaries it's just a straight kick in the nuts.
This actually has nuked all the desirable real estate markets in Mexico.
Mexico City, Tijuana (and the entire baja coastline) and historical towns like San Miguel de Allende have become unpayable for anyone not earning an American salary.
To use my city Tijuana as an example, the average rent for a 2 bedroom in the city is 930 dollars but if you want to live in an area that’s not a crime infested hell hole you’re going to pay about 1200-1600 dollars.
This doesn’t sound bad if you’re used to hcol areas in the US, plus everything else like restaurants, bills, service work is pretty cheap.
However the Local minimum wage, which is one of the highest in Mexico, is 1.625 usd per hour or 13 dollars a day/364 dollars a month and median income is 777 usd a month.
If we take £50k to make calculations easier, once you deduct taxes, pension and student loans, that leaves you with like £2800/month net income.
So yeah, you can have a pretty comfortable life on that if your rent + utility bills are less than £1000/month.
I think part of it is that rent is a lot cheaper.
Back in my home town I was paying £499/month for a 1 bed apartment.
Now im in a big city and am paying £650/month.