In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Trump was hilariously unfit for most of his presidency practically writing his medical reports himself lying about height and weight.
That plus more importantly Mike Pence was never made acting president when Trump was hospitalized for Covid.
The president was in emergency care and he was still ‘fit for duty’.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Let's not forget that .
Naturally much of that went to his own companies because the security details had to get rooms at his resorts, etc.
Trump also just recently said his victory in a golf tournament was better than a physical fitness test.
Trump is a fucking psychotic narcissist.
Skips the first day of a tournament, then inserts himself with a 5 point lead on day two.
You can bet his under educated followers support this without giving it a thought.
I am reminded of North Korea's Kim Jong Il who claimed to have had a birdie or better on every hole of.
Pyongyang Golf Course, and that had five holes-in-one.
Later, this claim was further embellished to say that he had scored 11 holes in one, and that this was on the first round played at the course.
Judicial Watch kept the charade that they gave a shit about that going for about a year under Trump.
Then they stopped when it became very clear he was on track to surpass Obamas 8yr tab in under 4!
I mean, come on, Trump...
If you're going to keep lying, at least do it on a grand scale like your NK buddies do.
Right?
None if them think "hey, this guy's a cheater.
Maybe he was making up that 'rigged election' stuff!
".
Oh yeah.
I remember.
The right wing website Judicial Watch kept a running tab of all of Obamas travel expenses while President.
They said he was accountable to the taxpayers for that and highlighted all of the expenses for Obamas personal travel (Ex: visiting Hawaii with family).
He made a big deal of donating (or saying he did) $100k of his Presidential salary back to the fed to fight COVID in spring 2020...a week before he had Secret Service spend $150k of taxpayer money to reserve golf carts at one of his properties.
Trump is trying though, and it helps that he has a lot of sycophants like Judicial Watch and golf buddies who won't call him on his shit (because who goes to a tournament Trump is playing in expecting Trump wouldn't cheat?
).
Well he's working on it.
His cult is still new compared to NK's, which goes back to Kim Il Sung in the 50's.
I don't think so.
It was the doctor who reported that a lonime personal bodyguard for Trump, along with a top lawyer at the Trump Organization and a third man, conducted a "raid" on his office on Feb. 3, 2017, in which they seized the president's medical records.
This was days after the NYT published a story that the president takes a prostate-related drug to treat baldness, known as Propecia, as well as other "antibiotics to control rosacea, a common skin problem, and a statin for elevated blood cholesterol and lipids.
".
I have to imagine they’re being sarcastic.
I’m absolutely a Biden supporter but man, look at him even back during the Obama years and it’s night and day.
Trump parks his golf cart on the green so he doesn't have to walk the extra distance to putt.
He and said his victory was as good as a physical fitness test.