Creepy uncle and the probably once abusive grandparents make a court case to try to force the children to see them?
That’s a red flag in itself.
There’s probably a reason both mom and dad want nothing to do with them.
It's not even interesting on abuse reddits, it's just a repeating cliche... a known pattern like gaslighting, FLEAs, projection, reversal, and triangulation.
Parents go No-Contact with abusive family members, abusive family members outrage at the loss of control/scapegoat.
So they first rage, then try to hoover back with lovebombs, then when all that fails, they try to sue for their 'right to see their grandchildren'.
Triangulation, in the context of abuse, means the abuser using a third party to manipulate the victim.
For instance, say a person cut contact with an abuser to try and protect themselves.. the abuser might convince a third person to 'go talk to' the victim, either to find out information or convince the victim to return to the abuser.
That one is the coping strategies or similarities to a victim's abuser that the victim picked up during the abuse.
Metaphorically it's like picking up fleas from the abuser, maladaptive patterns that are generally unhealthy and cause lonerm harm to the victim.
They can, though don't necessarily, lead to generational abuse as the victim can copy the abusers behavior or leave the trauma of the abuse unhealed, which can cause the victim to then abuse others.
It is baffling to me that someone would find court ordered supervised visits with grandparents estranged from both parents to be LESS damaging to a child than just letting the parents raise their children around who they see fit.
Grandparents are extended family members, not immediate.
The grandparents won in both the juvenile court and the Milan court of appeal, which in 2019 ordered meetings between them and the children in the presence of a social worker, while warning the parents of the potential psychological damage to the children from depriving them from seeing their relatives.
The parents argued that the meetings were not appreciated by the children owing to the ongoing family tensions and so appealed to the supreme court to have the decision overturned.
Confused how they think a child can make an informed decision, and not just a decision they will regret when older.
Speaking from experience, they are not old enough, turning 12 will not magically erase possibly years of bias about how bad a parent or grandparent is, and it's only when they are older that they will see it for what it is.
The point is that an unbiased party should make the decision, and I would hope with allegations like that they would take a much closer look at the uncle.