Lots of translation apps for the phone or add-ons for your favourite browser available for most languages.
I use it for polish and french, and they work great.
Poland has moved to cover pro-Putin leadership inside the EU from sanctions and punishments.
Even after the invasion of Ukraine.
The PiS in charge of Poland have typically been very pro-Authoritarian and have worked to aid pro-Russian candidates throughout the EU.
It let's you see how other countries view a topic, lot of times you get a better understanding of the topics because they publish information that might not be reported in your country, etc etc etc.
Getting your information from multiple sources and multiple countries is the best way to understand anything.
As of right now, Poland is the biggest obstacle for pro-Ukrainian actions by the EU as they veto any punishment for sanctions breaking by countries like Hungary.
Suffice to say that if the PiS leadership of Poland was removed from office things would much improve for Ukraine and the EU.
Yup, nobody would have been angry at Poland if they had screamed after getting declined.
Germany did so after getting their request denied by Switzerland and everyone, rightly, applauded Germany.
Now I am really dissapointed by your reply, those actions were revised later on and shouldn't be anymore taken seriously.
It like you just created whole new narrative like many trolls do.
Instead of doing that, PiS party government ran their mouth in front of every microphone that they could find, claiming Germany would block them.
However, Germany couldnt block them because the request was never sent.
So Poland finally actually send the request...after falsely claiming for 2 weeks they had already done it to score points with the polish people in preparation for their upcoming election.
Now let's see if Germany will approve it or if the devide between foreign minister and chancellor is as wide as many suspect.
it was known very well by Poland that German law requires any country that wants to send German tanks to actually send a request to get approval for doing so.
Polish PiS party is did that because Germany-bashing always works for their base, especially with their upcoming election.