Today was yet another pretty quiet day for us with no missile or drone strikes, or at least it was quiet up until now.
Just recently an air raid alert was triggered for most of the country, because Iranian drones are in flight right now and we are unsure where they are headed.
There are reports saying that at least one Shahed has made it to the Kyiv oblast, so they might be targeting Kyiv again.
They have been launching those drones at us since around 11pm, and they are still doing it more than 3 hours later.
Though thankfully I don’t think even a single drone has made it to its target as of yet, at this point our air defense is really good at dealing with Shaheds, so they very rarely manage to hit their intended targets.
Unlike here in Kharkiv, it wasn’t quiet at all in Belgorod today, as our forces were hitting some targets around it, and it looks like one of the missiles was intercepted and fell inside the city, though most of the missiles did make it to their target.
I’m actually not sure what was used in this attack, because aftermath doesn’t quite look like it was from a Tochka-U.
Russians were saying that AGM-88 HARM was used, because they apparently found its fragments, but I don’t think they posted any photos of them.
Tonight, I read a random Russian newspaper’s coverage of the ‘SVO,’ not published in Moscow.
They have very little of what we see as Kremlin-issued propaganda, and near nothing from any perspective outside of Russia.
Mostly just death announcements, production announcements, etc.
Something explosive would be hugely demoralizing - like a 30mm autocannon.
Imagine if you're part of the 2nd wave charge and you only see mangled body parts on your advance.
This week, this random newspaper did run a version of an international story of Zelensky’s 3-pt Peace plan.
Even so, the comments sections absolutely massacre their leadership with mockery—not just the trite “everything going according to plan, eh shoigu?” but the daily announcements of investments in a new weapon, new factory, or a newly occupied territory—meanwhile they live in dumps, they say.
One piece had Peskov saying laughably ridiculous things—that won’t be annexing Odessa or ‘Chernigov’ because the new territories of Russia are now occupied and must be liberated and there is the focus”—which is so preposterous that even the Russians can’t stop laughing.
(“Maybe they’re not Russian.” “What other territories will become part of Russia, but are still occupied?”) Or that plots in Crimea will be given as rewards to servicemen—“whose plots?
The ones our fleeing Russians can’t sell?
Or the ones Ukrainians will take back?
Or, lemme guess, you only give them to fallen soldiers, and they’re nontransferrable.”.
Meanwhile, the few pro-war commenters are downvoted.
No idea if that represents public sentiment, or just who comments on online newspapers.
Here a random Russian recognizes the sad fact that Ukrainian-Russian tensions were low in 2013.
And that the war launched this year was Putin's war of choice.
Ukrainska Pravda has published precious-but-heartbreaking “Letters to St. Nicholas”^1 from Ukrainian children who’ve already lost their father this year in the war.
The children ask for peace.
The children don’t have a list—they all ask for peace, several ask for weapons for the soldiers, and each only asks for one gift for self.