In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It's time all senators and congressmen submit to a search of their homes and offices for classified docs.
Across the board, every last fucking one of ya.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's not that fucking complicated to know how this happened.
If you have SIPR access, you can print out a secret or confidential document.
There's not some log to document these.
These sheets which can be printed along side unclassified sheets can get mixed in (and for presentation, usually happens).
That's how among tens of thousands of documents collected over the years of service where you've given secure briefings along with normal ones, you could find a couple dozen items that might contain a paragraph listing the army population in a city which was deemed secret.
Presumably the newly-appointed DoJ Special Counsel will be looking into why our intelligence agencies and NARA seem so unaware that copies of classified documents are going astray.
Note: This is VERY different from what Trump did which was purposely keep controlled SCI documents along with many other documents he did not own and belonged BY LAW by the US under the management of NARA.
Now, common sense would say "Hey, why not use specific colored paper like yellow or blue that can only be used on SIPR connected printers?"
and you'd be right.
Visually you know that yellow and white sheets don't go together and yellow sheets don't leave the room.
But, not every government agency does this.
Wouldn't be the situation in this case as the documents were marked.
That was the case with Hillary Clinton though about documents saved on the server.
I heard a space x astronaut had claimed as much on a previous flight in space...sporadic fires all over the place...was the quote, I believe.
Based on my knowledge of UFOs it couldn't possible be anything else.