Russia: “Iran, here is what was once one of our greatest nemesis, and now our most recent military component developed from our special military operation’”.
Russia: “Nonsense This technological powerhouse was capable of removing over 50% of our tanks from the battlefield Behold its glory, its power.
This multi purpose combat farm vehicle will make you the envy of every modern army on the planet”.
The reason their cozying up to Russia now is because their relationship with the US has been dicer over the past 20 years.
Both countries depend on foreign support, particularly support of someone on the security council to protect them.
“It has extensively coordinated with Russian expeditionary forces within Syria during Israel’s frequent raids on targets linked to Iran……Many Ukrainian leaders and military theorists look to Israel with admiration.
They seek to emulate its capacity to survive amid hostile neighbours and thrive despite being in a constant state of warfare.
The appreciation is not mutual.
Ukraine has a large and successful Jewish community.
It has a Jewish president.
Russian munitions have killed and displaced Holocaust survivors and destroyed monuments to Jewish suffering.
This has not moved Israeli leaders in the slightest.”.
Saudi Arabia is not a well liked country in the MEs.
Their relationship with the United States and role as a power broker is seen as critical to their security but younger Americans especially are critical of the Saudi state and America's relationship with it.
They likely see keeping things friendly with Russia as keeping a door open if they ever need to switch friends, and Russia playing mediator between them and Iran is probably seen as more advantageous long term than the US playing the role of agitator.
As much as they blustered, the Saudis really would have preferred the Iran Nuclear Deal worked and everyone could switch to normalizing relations with Iran.
Israel is even more dependent, as Israel has few friends globally and many who are critical of their foreign and domestic policies as well as their treatment of the Israel-Palestine Conflict.
The US' relationship with Saudi Arabia and Jordan has been critical to their security for decades.
Shifts in the policy priorities and electorates of Western States unnerve that arrangement.
Just like SA, Israel likely sees keeping the door open to Russia gives them options in managing their regional relations and potential threats from Iran.
It's also worth considering that Israel isn't exactly opposed to shifting the world order to allow for annexation of the Occupied Territories.
It's a mistake to assume that Israel or Saudi Arabia feel a vested interest in the fate of Ukraine.
They have their own concerns and when you narrow your focus to what they care about their positions on Russia and the conflict make more sense.
Russia is no longer going to be a power player on the world stage after this though.
It's like saying you need to keep the door open with North Korea at this point.
They're done and have lost the image they portrayed.
Fuck Russia.
Their allies are even weaker than they are, the opposite is true of Israel, they have the biggest juiced up countries as their friends.
So no, I haven't forgotten Russia's allies, they are punks just like pootin.
The world knows, fuck with Israel and if needed the US would step in.
Israel has already taken on multiple enemy neighbors at the same time by themselves and did just fine.
Calling out Israel for not providing the Iron Dome to Ukraine when it was developed with a ton of help from the US.
This is not the time to sit on the fence, the Jewish should understand this more than most.