It was Orban who pushed the self destruct button.
He was warned another times but another president who doesn’t listen to reason.
And doesn’t follow the rules of democracy only his rule.
Sucks doesnt it, i voted to join the EEC but was never asked if i wanted to be an EU citizen and had to wait 40 years to let them know i never wanted to be, maybe you’ll get your chance in 2056.
This is a poor response and frankly nothing less than i would expect from someone who could still argue a case for the EU, we were never asked if we wanted to join, and had made it pretty clear before the EEC vote that we wouldn’t want to join an EU, but they forced it through anyway despite the overwhelming opposition to joining an EU system, and you’re surprised we voted out when finally given a democratic choice?
Its what happens when the government decides to subvert the will of the people.
If they do not stand with Orban depose him and be done with it.
If you have to full Qaddafi or Ceuacescu do it.
So apparently, you seem to condone Jan 6th if it were by Democrats against the Republicans?
Or did you willfully decide to miss the point?
Because as I see it, to stand behind you and the comment you are deciding to defend, you are either proposing to condone it, you are responsible for Trump's term as "If they do not stand with ... depose him and be done with it.
If you have to full Qaddafi or Ceuacescu do it.
Enough fucking pandering to fascists.
Get rid of them by any means necessary.
", or what's more likely, you are just an American hypocrite speaking from a position of privilege.
This is the comment you replied to defend, and all you said was basically "well, it wasn't out side!
".
Stop weaseling out of it.
Are you condoning Jan 6th if it had to be used by Democrats to prevent a gerrymandered Trump win by authoritarians in the US, or are just an American hypocrite speaking from a position of privilege deciding to just dismiss Americans from being responsible and having to do the same when they literally elected an authoritarian less than a decade ago largely due to gerrymandering?
What the fuck is up with Americans and trying to encourage the toppling of the last bits of Democracy in their still Democratic governments instead of allowing them the same privilege of trying to salvage their shit together while they still can.
By the same logical fallacy of the comment you are defending, you are also responsible for Trump.