Apparently Newsweek has better intelligence then the Pentagon if they have the exact inventory and production numbers of Russia missiles.
“Russia has enough missile supplies left for only two or three more of the mass strikes it has launched in recent months against Ukrainian cities and energy infrastructure, according to Ukrainian intelligence.”.
Have we collectively forgotten that militaries in WW1 and WW2 were still able to produce weaponry and manpower despite far harsher environments and attrition?
I mean yeah, Russia is hindered in it's ability to openly buy advanced western microelectronics, but they'll absolutely be able to produce some on their own and acquire some others on black markets.
The world is a big place and while Russia is largely reliant on imports, it doesn't mean they have no internal capacity to generate war material.
Kh-555 are domestically produced [in Russia].
They won't "run out" unless they are planning to actually discontinue production.
They will simply slow their rate of fire to be equal to or lower than their rate of production.
They're still a nation state and there's zero chance that they'll actually have to entirely stop production on most of their weaponry.
Expecting that day to come is what could force this to become just another "victory will come when they collapse any day now" kind of conflict that lasts for several more years.
Preserving Russian lives does not appear to be a major concern for Putin and he’s not being forced to care by the Russian people yet.
While they can’t make advanced systems, they’ll absolutely be able to produce enough artillery shells, tanks, and manpower to keep the war going indefinitely.
We should not be putting Ukraine into a position where they have to give significant blood for every km they reclaim.
And expecting the Russian military to collapse and withdraw is not a viable strategy for Ukraine because history shows us that Russia has a lot more blood and time that they can commit than we seem to think.
Ukraine can intercept them but the issue is the cost difference and production times where one of these drones is like $20k and probably takes a few hours to manufacturer versus a $150,000-500,000 missile interceptor which might take weeks to build in order to shoot it down.