Think of the biggest, most humiliating mistake you made in your life.
It’s literally nothing compared to Putin’s fuck-up in front of the whole world.
I understand why he wants to hide.
Did that in the army too.
Was getting ripped apart by my S3 Major.
In front of all my battalions peers (LTs) I responded “yes mom “instead of “yes ma’am “.
20 years later, this still lives rent free in my head so I can contribute to Reddit.
I still want to crawl back into my cage thinking about that!
So to your question of why?
Well as Army company Xo( second in command ), one of my responsibilities monthly was submitting my company’s readiness report - how many soldiers are mission ready (health/ training/ Vacation etc) and how many vehicles and operational status.
Stuff like that.)
Anyway once a month all the LTs in the battalion got together to brief the Major , who would roll up our reports into one for the brigade commander ( next higher level of reporting for a battalion).
I don’t remember the question, but I remember not having the correct answer, and in front of my peers got my ass verbally handed to me.
I remember it seemed like a good 5 minutes before I realized what I said, but reality was likely 5 second but you could hear a pin drop.
I also remember my peers didn’t capitalize on making a joke or laugh at me I like to believe they were equally concerned for their thrashing but my mistake saved them.
If I can recall correctly the normally angry, cold, and harsh Major, cracked a what seemed like a smirk and her voice changed to what people would call normal The meeting was soon over.
Edit : adding that my entire time in the Army, the only time that rattled me that hard was the first time I experienced CRam ( very large and loud defense system) went off during deployment.
So to put that in perspective, this Major scared me as much as incoming death - ah to young and silly again I’m in my mid 40s now!
Appears like even the mighty Russian propaganda machine can't disguise the clusterfudge that he's created in Ukraine.