almost everything the US is giving Ukraine is expected to be replaced by the end of 2025, remind everyone of that when they cry and shit themselves about how much "money" we're giving ukraine.
But, but, dumping money into American companies loke Raytheon and Locked Martin's pockets, stuffing investor's pockets at a rate not seen since The War on Terror is obviously the same as giving money away to evil foreginers AMIRITE GUYS?
As a contractor in the defense industry.. there are problems, but some of that money does end up funding some cool and effective research and development.
Oh, I'm not mad at the defense industry.
I was a woke, bleeding heart liberal in my college days until I grew up and actually formed an understanding of history, the world and human nature.
US Hegemony is a Good Thing, because every other option is so, so much worse (imagine a global Chinese empire, or of the fascist alliance of Japan and Nazi Germany ruled half the word, or a Soviet super power enforcing Stalinist communism worldwide...).
No, our democracy is shit and held together by bubblegum and shoestrings by this point, but the very fact I can say this without fear says all you really need to know.
I was mocking those people who don't understand how defense spending works.
It's not a foreign charity, it's a handout to primarily US shareholders and massive jobs program.
Not ideal, but not remotely as "wasteful" as I would have believed as a college kid.
US hegemony is not a good thing, it is in fact a bad thing.
I say, as a woke, bleeding heart leftist.
Honestly, the Bradley was a pretty solid IFV right out of the gate.
Compared to near peer models like the soviet union deployed in Afghanistan, the combat effectively of the Bradley started out amazing and continued to be best in class for decades (looking at modern models like the Puma having 18 break down during winter training exercises just a few weeks ago).
US hegemony is preferable to Chinese or Russian hegemony is all, and $1 in defense spending is not $1 lost, in the US we have, it's the 1 source of upper middle class jobs, sadly.
In a more ideal world, US hegemony is extremely undesirable.
In fact, I'd love to see the EU dramatically expand its defense sectors and the US shrink its own, but for right now... and it hurts to say... Pax Americana.
Most of the money going to defense contractors because of Ukraine has nothing to do with what the US is giving Ukraine, in fact, the amount of GDP we're going to get because of foreign orders after pulling the pants down on Russian equipment will probably exceed the cost of the US giving equipment to Ukraine in terms of new revenues.
Seriously the US defense industry will make trillions in new sales over the next decade because of Europe buying new stuff, India suddenly realizing the sweet Russian gear they've been buying smells like dog shit now, and Asian worries about China's expansion (there's a huge home grown defense industry but the US can fulfill demand in the near term for many systems better, such as with f-35).
Now, I know the argument was the powers that be felt Ikraine didn't have an army to support and attempting to do so anyway would have lead to an earlier Russian invasion... don't know how I feel about that argument, but I do know it left a bad taste in Ukranian mouths we're going to have to answer for.
The Pentagon wars kinda played up the drama on its development.
The competing design factors are common in engineering and operational doctrine is common in most weapons projects.
Few are as clean and successful as Pershing and John blowing and the M2 50 cal.