It likely is the most complex geopolitical issue, but the people outside of those regions aren't so complicated.
Rather than fickle I'd say uneducated and self-righteous.
Personally I don't know jack about most of these circumstances, but I always see people on social media who know everything about it.
Remember how obsessed people were about BLM until they got bored of it?
What about 'FreeHongKong'... until they got bored of.
The rights of people in Qatar?
Let's wait a couple weeks and see what happens when the World Cup ends.
My bet is they'll get bored of it and move on to something else.
It's a tale as old as time.
Drama->Wokeness->Hype->BORED.
Religion, it turns out, is quite perseverant, so this issue takes a while to resolve.
To be fair for Hong Kong it was cuz we stopped protesting because of the pandemic and then couldn't restart because of the national security law... fair point on the others though.
And yet Hamas didn't exist until the First Intifada.
The right-wing settler colonialist movement is absolutely hugely involved but to suggest that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict isn't complex is absolute bullshit lol.
Zionists want it to be considered “complex” when in reality anyone with an ethical backbone and decent knowledge of history knows that this angle of portraying the conflict as something that’s not clear cut is an attempt and legitimizing the Zionist state’s existence.
Hamas is a DIRECT result of Isreali occupation.
The only reason they exist is because of them.
I said the ROOT of the conflict isn’t complex.
Even before Hamas there were Palestinian freedom fighters that would go to extreme unethical lenhs to liberate their land.
The root of the conflict is that Jews felt the need for a state due to pogroms, racism, and genocides across Europe, and Palestine was the only real place for it.
That in itself is complicated given the fact that whether you think that's justification for trying to make a nation state is itself complicated, not to mention the location and method etc., as well as the fact that the Yishuv initially didn't have nearly as much conflict as modern Israel today, although conflict still existed.
In fact, Labour Zionists were of the opinion that it would be a mutually beneficial relationship between Jews and Arabs for the mass migration to Palestine, as the Jews would be able to bring ideas and infrastructure from Europe and the land was underpopulated and capable of supporting both Israeli and Arab populations, although Arab resistance to the concept of a Jewish state killed it.
If you study the history of the region, the only thing that is clear is that there is no unequivocal "good" side to this conflict or a singular responsible party.
Why do you think Palestinians are dumb children and Israelis are adults who should be better care takers ?
The root of the conflict is indeed very much black and white.
There is no dual truth, the illegal occupation is why these jackasses have power in Gaza.
Their occupation of Palestine is the reason extremist groups like Hamas have support.
The Palestinians want their land liberated and Hamas uses their hatred for Israel as a way to draw support for their rule.
Palestinian mandate being owned by England is no different than them owning any other of the ex colonial countries.
What do you think the response would be if England “gave away” India to an ethno-religion when they still controlled it?
You think Indians would just sit around and take it just because the British colonized them for a period?
That being said you’re right, they’re not playing this in a smart way.
They should temporarily sign a peace deal and then focus on amassing enough power to eventually take back their land.
It’s total understandable when Palestinians use schools and children as human shields .. when they commit atrocities.
It’s sad but totally understandable because.. reasons.
The real evil thing is complicated land disputes and when some battle worn Israeli soldier shoots a prisoner out of anger.