Being one of the largest beneficiaries of global trade in the last decades, it seems that the German government has no idea how to grapple with current economic tendencies, specifically protectionism.
IMHO It's rather weird how they're not pushing heavily for deeper EU integration, because that would probably cement their economic future in a far larger market than their internal one, at least.
Well... Part of the Scholz government coalition agreement was to move towards federalization of the EU, which is the deepest of integration possible.
On one hand, federalization of the EU is such a no-brainer that it's kind of weird it hasn't happened already.
Many European issues could be solved easily.
On the other hand, non-German Europeans are often afraid that Germans are going to rule Europe unopposed.
Now, we have the Ukraine war.
Many Europeans think Germany has acted selfishly and with disregard for other Europeans both in terms of support for Ukraine but also in terms of dealing with the economic crisis.
TL;DR: Further integration is a no-brainer, but people don't want it because many EU-governments (incl.
Germany) keep doing shit other Europeans don't like.
Which means it's not a no-brainer after all.
Whether that sentiment is fair or not is kind of besides the point.
As long as many EU-citizens view the Franco-German alliance with scepticism, deeper integration is difficult to achieve while keeping the public happy at the same time.
I agree for the most part, although I personally think that the EU's reputation has been smeared consistently by all national governments.
Whenever bad news is coming, national governments are very quick to scapegoat the EU.
When good news is coming, those same governments try to spin it in such a way that they get most of the credit themselves.
Add to that that national politicians don't want to relinquish power, and you've got a magnificent roadblock on the path to deeper integration.
Personally I wouldn't mind a US of E, I'm quite sure they wouldn't do a worse job than national governments are doing now.
With that in mind, as a native do you think federalization just won’t happen?
I’m curious because it doesn’t seem to me like Europe will be able to compete economically/geopolitically with more centralized governments of similar strenh in the future.
Is there a way they can compete consistently as a whole and still be independent nations to a degree as things become more competitive?
I don't think actual formal federalization seems feasible right now.
The EU, as we know it, was also only possible because of the fall of the Soviet Union.
We would need an event of similar magnitude for formal federalization to happen IMO.
But you really need to ask, why you want to federalize.
Federalization is not an end goal – however cool it seems.
It's a "tool" to solve a given problem.
Like, if we federalize, how will my life become better?
I think the EU has plenty of problems where federalization is the right tool for the job.
I don't share that opinion with many people.