In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Man, as a progressive I say this all the freaking time when moderates campaign against progressive teammates, FRIENDLY FIRE DOESNT HELP WIN ELECTIONS.
You're just alienating your own.
Focus your ire on the literal fascists.
Vote your consciousness in the primary and then fall in line with the party most fitting your ideology for the general.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
How does throwing the most mud prove to the voters that you're the better choice?
It's a divisive tactic to use against your own.
Save that shit for the general.
And this is the reason I'm urging the progressives not to throw moderates under the bus.
Because they need them in the generals.
When you are running in an election, you play against your adversaries.
During the primaries, your adversaries are others in your party.
Natural selection at work in the political world.
If you can't survive the primary, you aren't fit for the general.
A totally normal component before the primaries and if you can't prove to the voters you're the best choice for your party, then you ain't gonna win the primary, so it clearly helps.
Every single year moderates cry when they lose progressive support after spending the whole primary bashing progressives instead of running on their own platform.
Counter productive for the primary.
But productive for the election that actually matters - the general.
Primaries are an internal party votes against two party members for leadership.
They are the same team.
Why would you want to insult the other candidate and his supporters beliefs knowing that you need those people in the general election?
But it's counter productive for the general.
Where you need the votes of the people you just insulted for months.
You attack the candidate and his beliefs, you attack his supporters and their beliefs.
Now thats counter productive.
Based upon what info?
Is there a survey amongst Bernie supporters from the last election showing that they did not vote in the General?
Is there other credible information that supports this supposition?
This article and your opinion contain confirmation bias.
I am not one to rally behind the guy, but these midterm elections showed polls are shakier than before, yet the country is mostly center left and is on board with the agenda he is pushing for.
Progressives were in his camp when he got elected, calling him a liberal firebrand, until he lost steam from the constant congressional blocks or gridlock (the capacity of POTUS is limited in what its capabilities are to counter these) and then they started joining some voices critical of Joe.
This article reeks of disingenuous politics.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
EDIT: No idea what tomfoolery you pulled to hide your posts from my account but progressives did say this.
AOC said she elected him to be the next FDR, even Bernie was saying he could be the most progressive since FDR.
AOC also said that his relationship with progressives would hinge on his actions, thus my previous comment.
Going by policy alone in this midterm swing, yes the country is on board with him and—to a certain degree—progressives as well.
Honestly so weird of you to block me without prompt but continue this thread.
Nothing here is attacking you buddy.
If you're going to campaign against your own team, you better have a rising star on deck to replace him.
Even then youre just doing the Republicans work for them.
And so far I don't think Dems have a rising star that could get more votes than Biden, unfortunately.
Better to keep all the cards on the table right now imo.