Amazonia's land is terrible to crops.
And the Amazonia is crucial to regulate the rains of Brazil's south, where the land is much more suitable to produce food.
Deforestation is irrational per definition.
Edit: Rainforest is not self-sustaining/self-regenerating anymore, so "undoing" things is not enough...
That comment shows how ignorant one can be about worldwide issues, Norwegian mining companies are famous for destroying the enviroment in Brazil, even in the amazon.
Not only that, pasture is not even the most profitable activity.
Keeping the rain forest and exploiting it for pharmaceutical purposes is much more rentable and it's done by keeping the forest alive.
Most Deforestation in Brazil isn't due to companies, it is done ilegaly by thugs, the remaining is the example I just gave you..
The Norwegian goverment directly caused damages so great that it is kinda impossible to quantify it in dollars, one instance of that is currently being judged as a crime against humanity since it was done knowingly or at the best case scanario, due to negligence.
Of course it was in the Amazon.
But hey, they used to donated enough to buy a couple helicopters and a land vehicle.
They really trying to counter act it eh.
That doesn't make sense if we know they are the same entity.
It is also very relevant to every sentence in your comment.
Doing the thing that makes more sense, or at least were you live, if you won't criticize India leave us alone too.
"The Amazon rainforest is now emitting more carbon dioxide than it is able to absorb, scientists have confirmed for the first time.
".
Moro, the main judge of the case, became a bolsonaro's minister and after that became a right wing politic.
"Amazon released nearly 20% more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere over the past decade than it absorbed".
Yeah, no, fuck off friend, my grampa here in Brazil can't cut a tree in his driveway due to green laws but Germany just reached 100% capacity on their oil stockpile while lecturing us to start somewhere, every month I go on a day long trip to gather trash from the beaches and I cringe everytime someone simps for paperstraws because "We had to start somewhere".
It's not, could be unethical, but it's definitely not illegal.
Even more considering that he's not the actual president.
Luciano Hang, big entrepreneur and bolsonaro's friend, had an audio leaked where he asked for forgiveness of tax that his company owned to the government.
Messages leaked from Intercept ( and with veracity attested by the federal policy ) revealed that the attorney worked together with the judge of the case, showing the obvious bias of the court.
Gabriela Hardt, the other Judge, literally copied Moro's decisions, and when I use literally, I meant it.
His corruption destroyed the livelyhood of countless people across many countries.
In Brazil it had an impact similar to the pandemic and the Ukranian war.