In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The author suggests passing election reforms (clarify ancient legalaeze and make it more difficult to reject results), raising (or eliminate) the debt ceiling now so that Republicans can't hold the country hostage in a year's time, and passing immigration asylum reform (something asked for by senators from both parties).
Turns out, people are as happy with some dude in their bedroom making YouTube videos as they are with professionally produced television, and they are just as happy with some random comment on reddit as they are with an actual researched and edited article by a professional subject matter expert and production team.
Once upon a time, Newspapers had enough revenue from subscribers that billions per year could be fed into harvesting grind-pressed headlines.
Inflation and extreme wealth make that difficult, since no reporter can provide an experience of luxury and safety to convince a source, and those who would be interesting are the owners.
And of course people point to the mistakes traditional media companies make as evidence of their incompetence.
Doing interesting things means you make mistakes, and just because someone is an expert on something doesn't make them clairvoyant.
Those subtleties are lost when you can just pick the articles and the narrative you agree with today, process be damned.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There is no good solution here.
Good content costs a lot to make well.
But generating revenue from that content is hard when other people can easily copy and repost or rephrase the content and pay nothing for it.
Conservative billionaires view the press as a strategic tool to get lower taxes and government contracts and handouts, so losses in their media investments are offset by gains elsewhere.
Liberal media and 'strictly facts' media (such as it is) had no rich patrons, and have to report on complex contradictory things, billionaire directed media only needs to push the owner's narrative.