They privatized they railroads… it never results in any kind of improvements.
Last couple of decades, UK was on a steady downward spiral.
Privatizing everything they can… and defunding what they can not privatize right away.
BBC used to be the golden standard of journalism… now it is not much different from Murdock’s creations.
NHS was envy of the world… now it just sad joke.
As of now, UK is fucked… it would take them decade (if they are lucky) to get back to what it used to be before Tori had they go.
Privatised roads work great in many countries though.
Maybe it’s not necessarily the privatising but who gets tk do it and how.
Oh you sweet summer child, do you honestly think that tolls would not be increased to improve shareholder value once a controlling share of road infrastructure was achieved by some private investment firm?
Remember that those investments are intended to provide year over year increases in profit.
I've lived for a decade in pretty much every major region in the US and traveled extensively.
I got spoiled growing up in Cali but living in the midwest and visiting the NE I very rapidly got tired of having to plan for tolls when I wanted to get anywhere.
When I lived in the southern US I was mostly able to avoid them except on one regular yearly trip my family made.
Yes, I exaggerated the cost in my first post but I grew up in a time and place where toll roads were all but non-existent so the shock of being hit with toll plazas when making what I thought of as a short drive set my dislike of toll roads.
I already pay taxes which should cover the upkeep on infrastructure like roads.
Having to pay tolls on top of that to the tune of about $1 every 10 miles traveled was adding insult to injury.
Ok so you don’t even know what I’m talking about here.
Why you posted that overly long response I’ll never know.
Some of the best highway networks in Europe are privately maintained and they’re mostly a joy to travel on.
I've also worked for Fortune 500 companies for the last 25 years and dealt with private equity firms so I know full well their motivation and operational model.
Give any private interest a controlling interest in critical infrastructure and you'll see maintenance degrade and fees raised to the absolute maximum that the market will bear.