In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
>“There was a potential opportunity for us to collect intel where we had gaps on prior balloons,” he said.
“And so I would defer to the intel community.
But this gave us the opportunity to assess what they were actually doing, what kind of capabilities existed on the balloon, what kind of transmission capabilities existed, and I think you’ll see in the future that that timeframe was well worth its value to collect over.”.
When you get to that high a rank, you can't talk without militaryspeak, but General VanHerck seems pretty sanguine about what we saw, what we missed, and especially sensible about how we handled this one.
Funny quip, but this is the statement that NOBODY in American intelligence saw these balloons.
The article says that they were informed by outside sources that three balloons had gone over during Trump.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
So which is the preferred outcome for republicans in this?
That the armed forces withheld info from Trump because they are part of a liberal plot?
Or because they felt Trump was such a security liability that informing him could have jeopardized national security interests?
Or was it that the Armed Forces under him had become incompetent/compromised?
I mean by all means investigate.
Any answer they find looks absolutely terrible for them outside of liberal plot, and that's the least plausible by a mile.
There is that too, which, well, after the bravado he had over the weekend about how he'd deal with it would be lovely to hear about how a Chinese spy balloon was so boring that it didn't make the briefing cut for him.
If anything it's a great play to advertise Biden's security record.
Spy balloon shows up, we track it, down it when safe to do so.