In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I feel for you, my mom is disabled and has issues current medicine can't really do anything to help her with (non-specific autoimmune disorder that absolutely wrecks her body).
Years ago a doctor, I choose to believe as an act of mercy, kept prescribing more and more pain/depression/anxiety meds to the point where she was on probably 7 or more narcotics and fairly high doses.
She used to be a nurse so we trusted her to handle her own meds.
Well, she would take them, pass out, wake up not realized she took them and took them again.
After a while a month of medications was disappearing in a matter of days.
By the time we figured out what was happening she turned straight up into a drug addict.
She literally seemed to have another person in her, angry and mean and just downright hateful.
Having someone who seems perfectly normal randomly turn on a dime and turn into a nearly-rabid, hate spewing, demon-like person is such a hard thing to deal with.
We took her meds away and gave them to her as prescribed, but she would break into lock boxes and try to manipulate meds out of us.
Over a few years we managed to wean her off of all the pain meds and other narcotics and eventually got her onto non addictive meds.
We use more natural things now but they aren't as effective, honestly Delta 8 has been the only decent pain management we have found for her.
(It is also what I use as I have terrible reactions to all narcotic pain meds and I have a crushed disk from a back and other issues) It was just a terrible thing to go through and between how many meds she was on and a sickness that gave her a fever that cooked her brain she doesn't remember any of that time.
She no longer has that addict personality as far as we can tell, but also isn't even the same person I grew up with, a temp of 107 for 5 hours will do that.
Myself and my sister still take care of her and still remember all she put us through and it is hard to let that go, but she is literally a different person now (partially due to brain damage) so we take care of her but that hateful person literally doesn't exist anymore but she looks the same.
That is a really hard thing to come to terms with.