In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I don't want California to think I am being critical - generally, it is better than my state (NC) by a long shot.
But California (the parts people live in, anyway) is pretty middling corporate-moderate Democrats embodied.
Progressives - if you want power within the Democratic party (and I do), then you have to VOTE.
VOTE in every single primary and other election.
Vote Progressive from the top down.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Vote for who you want in the primaries.
Vote strategically in the general.
Corporate ass-licking "moderate" Democrats are still better than fascist/authoritarian Republicans.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
I am a progressive with no rose colored glasses.
I don't think the DNC acted particularly honorably in the last primaries.
Guess what - they never do.
And they never will.
Get the progressive votes up to \80% and we would own the party.
They will never GIVE us what we are due.
We will have to TAKE it, through voting, and thus ousting our leadership when they are too compromised by corporate interests.
California is the most ethnically diverse states in the United States - which is what the DNC is trying to achieve, reach a better consensus of candidate and appeal to more than white Democrats.
We have our own healthcare marketplace (Covered California) and a progressive taxation, compared to most states.
“Corporate” is just an insult that bitter and narrow minded liberals use to disparage anything they don’t like.
White Democrats have distinctly different priorities than minority Democrats or Independents, which the Democrats need to win state and nation wide elections.
It’s about more than climate change and LGBTQ+ rights for a lot of voters that Democrats need to appeal to.
That sounds exactly what I'd expect a corporate-friendly, moderate, generic DNC supporter to say.
Sounds like we are in agreement on California's political position (the inhabited parts, anyway).
meh - like I said earlier - I would gladly have California's policies in my state - NC - a GqP shithole.
Paranoid person: "That's exactly what the mind controlling people putting drugs in the water WOULD say.
".
There is no arguing with you, you don't care about reason or logic.
Whatever fits your narrative is what you believe, and you reject that does not fit your narrative.
Many times, liberals/the left/Democrats are their own worst enemies.
If I agree with you on 80% of the things, as a progressive vs a moderate democrat, are we still political allies?
We should be.
I mean it, though, when I say it sounds like we are in agreement on California's political position.
California is pretty much the crown jewel in the states by mainstream DNC standards.
And let me assure you, I will pick that over authoritarianism/fascism any day.
I voted for Biden, and Clinton before him.
Although I consider both of them moderate, corporate-friendly democrats.
When the primaries come around though, they'll tell you that you need to vote for the candidate in the primary who the media says is most electable in the general.
It's saying that Southern black and Hispanic voters skew moderate and aren't likely to support an insurgent candidate.
If South Carolina, a state which hasn't helped elect a Democrat since 1976, has the greatest power in deciding which Democrats are viable, what hope is there for progress?
I am not going to kill Sue Jean, the 82 year old piano teacher down the street who is Vice President of the HOA.
I am too busy in my life to make it to the HOA monthly meetings that determine how many dogs I can have.
I would never make it to a caucus to elect president.
Also, Bernie won the popular vote in Iowa in 2020.
The format of the Iowa caucuses actually worked against him in that state, giving Buttigieg the victory.
If Bernie won by a few points, that might be a legitimate argument, but Bernie won Nevada by 26 points over his closest competitor.
It wasn't close.
Black voters aren't a monolith.
Black voters in the South aren't the same as black voters in the mid-west, or the northeast, or the west coast.
I'm all for courting black voters, but SC isn't the only state in the country that has a higher than 13% share of black voters.
Maryland's population is 31% black, higher than South Carolina's, and unlike South Carolina, is a state that the Democratic Party can win in, that will help propel a Democratic candidate to the White House, and is a state that progressives can put up a solid fight for those black voters in.
Why can't Maryland be moved up?
I too want to find our best candidate.
I think we do that by trying to find states that are not only racially diverse, but also ideologically diverse.
South Carolina meets one of those metrics, but not the other, and there are other states which meet both better.
This is about forcing progressives to win over conservative southern dems, which is a pretty tough proposition for progressives.
South Carolinian black voters were solidly behind Clinton, not only because of her institutional connections, but because those voters didn't think Obama was electable.
Black voters didn't really go fully in support of Obama until he proved he could win over rural white voters, which he did by winning Iowa.
Iowa got Obama S.C.
If S.C. went first in that election, Clinton would have won it.
You know who did have their way?
South Carolina, so it's not like S.C. doesn't have enough power in the nominating process by being the 3rd state rather than the 1st in the nation.
I'm not saying that the South shouldn't have an early say in an early primary.
I am southern.
I'm saying maybe South Carolina shouldn't be the southern state we choose for that early primary role.
Maybe choose a southern state that Democrats have a chance in hell of competing in, like Virginia, N.C., or Georgia.
Maybe we shouldn't stack the deck in making multiple southern states early states, as this plan does, and maybe we shouldn't stack the deck by making southern states disproportionate to the rest of the country on the first Super Tuesday, like we do.
All of those things put together give an institutional advantage to conservative and moderate Democrats.
I'm not asking for a progressive advantage.
I'm just asking for a somewhat even playing field, especially early.