In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I think that visit to Walter Reed had to do with Trump getting a routine colonoscopy, Trump not wanting to invoke the 25th amendment and have Pence temporarily in charge while he was under anesthesia for some reason, and then having a colonoscopy without anesthesia.
look, I had a very important and very very scheduled Presidential Physical, and they usually do it in 3 parts, but I was so good I only had to do 2, and I was told by Dr. Ronnie, he used to be your Doctor, now he's your Congressman from the Wonderful State of Texas, I love Texas, Texas loves Trump, and it was perfect, I tested perfectly positive, which is negative in another sense, but totally positive, and I really have not only the best health but the best look out of all the Presidents, if we're being honest about it, and you never got that with Obama, he wouldn't even take the Presidential Test because he knew he'd Fail Miserably.
now you have Sleepy Joe letting China walk all over us, you have gangs and vicious mobs of Radical Left Thugs who have destroyed our beautiful Cities and hurt your Constitution because they wanna take away your houses and your 401Ks, but the Fake News would never tell you that.
If it came to be that Fetterman died or had to resign, that would just mean that the governor would appoint another Democrat in his place.
That “unfit to serve” nonsense never made sense to me.
If I were a Democrat voter in PA, I’d never vote for Oz because of Fetterman’s health.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Either way, I get the representation and votes for Democrat policies.
No way voting for Oz would have ever done that.