In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I'm in northern CT and it's been kind of tough listening to everyone praise the nice weather lately without considering why it's unseasonably warm.
Personally, it makes me sad when I think about why I'm sleeping with my windows wide open in November.
Never in my life of living in New England have I been able to have windows open at night in November.
Like you said, it's back to more autumnal appropriate temperatures today, but I bet people will complain that they miss the warm weather.
Long Island guy here and after 4 days in a row of 70+ weather and listening to my friends say things like "Global warming isn't all bad", I realize too many people will never get it.
I'm like "Did you guys read what the warm water temperatures are doing to shellfish and algae, etc.?"
Of course, they do not.
Thank you, I remember when I was a kid by November in NY it was already chilly.
You’d have to wear a coat to school.
Now I’m still walking around with shorts on.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Same whenever I bring up the actual effects of global warming, besides the warm weather when it's usually cold.
An entire generation of elephants died in Africa because of drought.
But it's okay because I can wear shorts in November right?
I'm also curious how it's affecting the animals that hibernate, but I don't think I want the answer 😕.
My other favorite response when things like more intense storms happen and cause more damage and especially flooding is "You have been screaming about global warming for years.
Now you want to blame everything on it.
The climate is always changing.
".