Why do we put any people in prison?
The one thing we universally support is prison is for preventing violent people from terrorizing society and hopefully to be rehabilitated so (again) they won't harm society in the future.
Is he capable of harming society again, especially since he didn't serve his term to protect us and clearly hasn't been rehabilitated?
I think it's horrible that Griner's bad decisions caused her to receive an insanely long prison sentence in a bad country.
However, I don't understand why she's more valuable than the other people imprisoned for insanely long sentences in foreign countries for possessing drugs.
I definitely don't understand how she's more valuable than all if the innocent Americans being held by bad state actors, especially those who were there simply for humanitarian or family purposes and hailed wrongly.
I certainly don't understand how she is valuable enough to trade for a notorious international arms dealer responsible for numerous atrocities, but we can't pay a little money to get innocent citizens returned home.
Hell, we can't even release our own drug possession prisoners in America and spend years of bureaucracy to release people proven innocent.
It's not about "he's not really a threat" or even about Griner specifically... it's just the hypocrisy and publicity of the whole situation that's frustrating to many.
It's a typical "who gives less fucks" game.
Either the US doesn't care about Griner or Russia doesn't care about Bout.
And given he had already spent 14 years in prison, Russia had proven it would let him stay there for another 11 easily.
Given Bout has relatively little value for Russia, it could be exchanged only for another relatively low value asset.
Ginger was just fitting the description.
Ok, I'd suggest reading up on Bout.
Not being condescending, it's simply mist of us know nothing about him or what he did,other than he was a fun smuggler.
I looked it up,for that exact reason I was curious whi he is,be abuse frankly I knew more about Griner than him.
Russia has been pushing for his release the entire 15 years and he has significant value to Russia, especially now.
I wrote it all out to another poster.
Did it help that she was a public person?
Sure.
But her case was extremely simple and obvious to the public.
It's usually not the case with the other people.
Besides, she had a good reason to be in Russia.
Much more difficult to fight for those who went there to meet a fake wife, supporters of "Russian World" who got set up or even tourists.
It was a perfect storm why Griner got a good negotiation deal.
Reputation-wise it's a clear win for the US.
To be fair, even the fact Russia accepted this exchange shows how corrupt and disgusting their regime is.
I don't get your point on Griner's case was simple and clear, compared to actual innocent people imprisoned.
She admittedly brought drugs to a country with strict laws against it and did it at the worst possible time, didn't leave Russia when warned to, and doesn't have overwhelming US support.
My opinion,but people are more interested in getting people back from countries who were accused of being spies or "immoral" because they were giving vaccinations or medical care to poor people.
We just don't get daily news coverage about them.
I disagree it is a clear win reputation wise for the US.
That's an opinion, but it doesn't hold up as a fact considering international criticisms and a lot of US public responses.