It really, is a war of attrition and the article wanting the Ukrainians to change their strategy by spring is arrogant at best because it takes time for troops to know how this equipment is used and changing general and commanders strategies can be like teaching a old dog new tricks.
As habits are hard to break in military doctrine and strategy.
Not to mention the logistics of the million dollar equipment Ukraine is getting.
I have been worried Ukraine may have an issue that this Advance equipment could create a logistical nightmare similar to the Russians as Ukraine may not have the logistical training and supply to keep the huge amount of Western Equipment running.
I remember a Perun video where he talked about Ukraine tends to use large truck convoys for fuel that could be easy targets for Russia.
As they little protection and are slow.
That fuel was before more advance equipment was given to Ukraine and that is only going to get worse.
Russia also has way more bodies to throw at this war, they will win an extended war of attrition.
I see way too many jokes and overconfident remarks on here.
The situation is pretty serious in Ukraine.
I personally don't believe Ukraine will be able to take all of Ukraine unless there is a lot of things go in Russia's favor.
More likely, that Russia keeps Donbas and Donetsk but it's not officially ceded to Russia it more just turns into a militarized border.
There is also a possibility Russia is pushed out of Donbas and Donestk but Ukraine still fails to Crimea.
Keep in mind Crimea is always been very questionable if Ukraine could take it back as Crimea culture and population tended to always be more aligned with Russia than Ukraine.
I think the best case scenario for Ukraine is to make Crimea a Independent Republic were neither side has it but I highly doubt anyone would agree to that.
I still can't believe that Russia is yet to achieve air superiority over Ukraine.. how a country can call itself a "superpower" with a straight face when it can't even win what should be a one sided air battle right at its own border is beyond me.