__Displaying a Nazi symbol or making a Nazi salute in public is not always a crime in Switzerland.
The authorities now say it’s possible to ban such symbols or gestures but such a change would encounter “major legal and editorial obstacles”.__.
Switzerland has a certain tolerance when it comes to Nazi symbols and gestures.
Nazi salutes and swastikas are banned only when used for propaganda purposes.
Political efforts to scrap this distinction have been ongoing since 2003.
Initially hesitant, the government promised to look into the matter.
On Thursday, the Federal Office of Justice (FOJ) issuedExternal link a report on the legal options for a ban.
Majorities in government and parliament have so far judged freedom of expression to be more important, but the perception seems to be shiftingExternal link with a number of parliamentary motions and the Council of the Swiss Abroad calling for zero tolerance.
It concluded that a ban on Nazi, racist or extremist symbols is possible, but making such a change would “come up against major legal and editorial obstacles”.
If criminal law was expanded, all symbols of racial discrimination would have to be included as well as Nazi symbols, the FOJ said.
Furthermore, lawyers see no need to act.
They say that in most cases, the public use of Nazi, racist or extremist symbols, as well as those promoting violence, is already punishable in Switzerland, the FOJ said.
Cantonal laws provide the police with sufficient instruments to intervene, particularly during demonstrations, it added.
Exceptions should also be made so that the use of the symbols in question for scientific, educational, artistic or journalistic purposes remains possible.
Also, it would be possible to add “an explicit ban on the use of Nazi and racist symbols” to the article on discrimination in the Criminal Code.
Alternatively, a special law could be passed to regulate the ban in more detail.
“The norm should be drafted in a sufficiently open manner so that the courts can take into account the context of the act in each case.
However, the wording should be clear and precise, so that everyone can know what is permitted and what is prohibited,” it stated.
In a joint statementExternal link the Swiss Federation of Jewish Communities and the Platform of Liberal Jews in Switzerland said the need for a ban was “urgent” and that there must no longer be legal uncertainty regarding the use of Nazi symbols.
“Switzerland must also align itself with the situation of its neighbours and cannot justify a marginal position,” it said.
The organisations called on parliament and the government to study the legal options presented in the report and to focus initially on the issue of Nazi symbols, gestures and flags as a first concrete step.
“Until now, attempts to ban racist, extremist and discriminatory symbols have always failed because no one could agree on a list of these symbols,” it said.
I think this is very mature what they are saying is the law is/are already there no point in changing it we just need to apply as needed I can get along with that.
Yeah when you think about it it's a bit silly.
It's as if banning red stars, raised closed fists, and the hammer & sickle would make people less communist.
No, the parliament can pass laws on their own, but if peoole collect 50'000 signatures during a certain time period every swiss citizen get forced to vote about it.
Citizens have no direct say in law-making at a national level.
However, they can make their voices heard during a consultation, that is, when the government collects the opinions of all sides involved in a project.
People can also try to veto a law approved by parliament by collecting at least 50,000 signatures over 100 days, forcing a nationwide vote on the issue.
More than 220 referendum votes have taken place between 1875 and 2019.
The same happened with the marriage for all.
The politicians had already everything ready to enable it, some christians and the right wing party were against it, collected 50k signatures and we Swiss citizen voted still Yes.
Above all, Swiss citizens can suggest changes to the constitution by launching so called people’s initiatives.
If there are enough signatures – at least 100,000 gathered over 18 months – the government has to set a date for a public vote.
Since marriage for all but same-sex couples now also be taxed more.
Has an initiative collected nearly 200,000 signatures and the parliament is also just drafting a counter-proposal to tax the wages individually.
It's been one since governments made it a criminal offense to make threats, or any other limitation on speech whatsoever.
The so-called "marriage penalty" exists in Switzerland.
The law does not yet take into account that women work and therefore two-earner households receive a hefty tax progression.
In May 2021 we got married, my wife earns more than I do, both wages are added together and suddenly we both have to pay 300% more taxes.
Because even though slippery slopes are a fallacy, lawyers specialize in slipping interpretations towards a certain side of the scale.
It can just be assumed someone is threatening with little supplemental evidence for a charge to hold weight in court, although typically the threat is strictly verbal.
"Inciting."
Freedom of expression has limitations in so many things.
You have the right not to get punched in the mouth but society loves to remind you that freedom of speech won't protect you from the damage you receive for your words.
Speech rights are foundational to Western values, but the greatest supporters of free speech are bound to lose to those who attack it, because only one of them wants to shut the other up in the argument and it's not the one who supports free speech.