In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I don't really want to wish a headache on anybody for Christmas, but the only videos I've watched of him lately (his presidential announce and the NFT commercial), he doesn't seem well.
Just a reminder:
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
No more time, then just let the public know the score, which is all we wanted and everything he promised he would "love to" do but...
Is this a reference to the time Trump made an emergency trip to the hospital, and then afterward vehemently denied the mini-strokes that nobody was talking about until he brought them up?
It could be, or , and have difficulty walking on a wheelchair ramp, or operating a bottle of water and so on.
Or it could be that one of my neighbors here had a stroke, but had been complaining about "funny headaches" the week before, and I just want to put something potentially helpful out there.
Or a bit of both.
People can have physical problems and be mentally there, like Michael J Fox and so on.
But if you are going to mock a reporter who has arthrogryposis, then Trump should expect some feedback regarding his claims of extraordinary health when he struggles with an everyday item like a bottle of water.
I can't tell much about his right arm, although it is odd that he would use his left hand to adjust his mask, he's right handed, but the way he's using that right leg reminds me of my mother-in-law after she had a stroke.
I don't think lifts in his shoes explains the way he is using his right leg in, or why he is not using his right arm and hand, given that he is right-handed.
Good point, but wouldn't you think when you are announcing your candidacy for president, you would rehearse and do some takes until you got a good one?
I get that, he can't be honest, or has a sense of not wanting to alienate his base, such as they are, and the Trump staff were likely under a time crunch to get the statement out.
But in his recent announcement for running as president as the Republican 2024 candidate, I don't see how similar pressures come into play, he just seems, not well.