In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This individual didn’t speak too highly of Trump’s policies even though this person leaned to the right politically.
The area they were in charge of didn’t command too much attention from the White House so this person come in, did their job to the best of their ability and left at the end of the administration.
This person has stepped out of the limelight unlike their predecessors who wrote in opposition or in support of policies of the current Administration, so I’m not sure if serving as a political appointee will rank highly on their resume.
I think possibly some of them were given an opportunity to work in the White House and were so smitten by the idea they didn’t really think it through.
And then they slowly woke up to the bed they made.
I mean being asked to work for the President at the White House is a big deal.
I’m not talking about the people who went in their with a big agenda but some people probably were flattered and asked to be in a job they normally would have no chance at.
I don’t necessarily think they were all opportunistic.
And then it gets messy.
We can all speculate about why people didn’t just be whistleblowers right away but people have families and lives and if people can get in over their heads and I’m sure they got a lot of threats real or not about what would happen if they said anything.
If you are legally required to testify to congress that kind of I would think exclude any way you could be in legal trouble for saying anything.
I expect alot of these people testified not just because they had to but also because they were told anything you were threatened with doesn’t apply at this point.
They were there to further his agenda and to grift for themselves.
All this bullshit hand-wringing now is just that - bullshit.
They made their beds.
Now they can go fuck themselves.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I once had a conversation with a Trump Political appointee.
This individual was reasonably qualified for the position they were placed in as they had worked in the area they were in charge of for a while.
Trump was a shitbag and everyone who took a job in his administration knew it.
Anyone who worked in the Trump White House is the definition of opportunistic.