In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
In another disturbing parallel to the Nazis, they're conducting internal purges (like the night of the long knives) to eliminate any threat to the established GQP leaders.
I know that doesn't mean crazies aren't planning something in the background but there's not the supportive environment that existed in 2020 for it.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I'm in Phoenix and there's definitely not the "buzz" there was after the 2020 election in town.
I live in the bluest part of AZ but i travel out to mouth-breather territory a lot.
Even out there they're more defeated than proudly and arrogantly wrong like they were in 2020.
Well as someone in the southeast valley here’s my report from deep inside the MAGA territory: They fully believe Kari Lake will be successful in legal challenges and expect to get a brand new election.
A do-over if you will, because of the printing problem which wasn’t even a problem that affected them but they don’t care.
Now, will they have the same energy to mount any sort of 2020 level response?
Time will tell but they are just as delusional and insane now as they were in 2020, but they fully believe the State will be stopped from certifying and Lake will wind up winning.
Once that slips away from their reality is when we will see if they’re all bark or not.
Blue is winning in Arizona.
As we rip control from these hillbillies, racists, conspiracy theorists, gun nuts, pedos and weirdos they're growing increasingly violent, increasingly vocal.
AZ is more sane, and more progressive than it's been since the 50s, don't let the angry little losers fit indicate differently.