In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Technically if Trump took his inherited money and put it into an average performing retirement fund he would be worth 4-5 billion more than what Forbes and other media currently assesses him to.
So in reality this “business genius” has actually lost 4-5 billion over 30 years by doing much worse than average when compared to thousands of businessmen for 30 years.
The most telling part of this 'Trump profit' to me is - this is the sale of property Trump inherited from his father.
This was inherited profit - not profit from Trump's own investments or business acumen.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
insurance fraud too.
he was telling the banks, insurance companies, IRS all something different.
Also, the sale of this property is rather funny.
he "inherited" the whole thing, full ownership.
why did he only have 4% left?
he made loans and used that as collateral, and then didn't pay the loans back because they were terrible investments.
where did all this cash end up, I have to wonder.
Keeping that in mind - Trump made virtually no profit at all for the 6 years of taxes that have been made public.
Anyone want to bet the story he told the banks to get loans during that time was completely different from the story he fed to the IRS?
The most telling part of this 'Trump profit' to me is - this is the sale of property Trump inherited from his father.
This was inherited profit - not profit from Trump's own investments or business acumen.
Keeping that in mind - Trump made virtually no profit at all for the 6 years of taxes that have been made public.
Anyone want to bet the story he told the banks to get loans during that time was completely different from the story he fed to the IRS?