In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Lee Zeldin's idea of law and order is being an anti-choice right-wing extremist.
Reports on Zeldin's extreme abortion views include gutting planned parenthood and jail for women who travel out of state to seek abortion.
Zeldin has also supported birth control restrictions and criminal punishments for abortion:
NYS is a state with great extremes and inequalities which leads NY to hate NYC/LI for having more government programs and NYC/LI to hate NY for getting more total money since implementing programs over such a large areas costs much more.
I drive a lot in NY, like 1500 miles a week all over the Hudson valley.
I’ve spent a lot of time looking into Zeldin because he has no policies, no goals, not even any real achievements in congress.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Whenever I see a zeldin sign in a front yard it’s a house you would expect to see in rural Alabama.
Why would rural NY vote for a Long Island politician?
He’s the antithesis of everything they hate about NY.
As far as I know, Zeldin hasn’t visited Dutchess county, where I live, and his campaign does not respond to questions on their website or social media.
They haven’t even door knocked our community where the dems have.
I get why though.
NY and NYC/LI have two very different cultures and economic interests.
NY is very family-oriented, community minded, and nature focused.
NYC/LI is very individualistic, ambitious, and entertainment/financial focused.
NY is agriculture, tourism and manufacturing focused.
NYC/LI is finalice, tourism, and tech focused.
Campaigning where less and less of the population lives, meaning Delaware, Greene, south Albany county, schoharie and so on helps a far smaller amount of people learn about a candidate.
But isn’t it weird that Zeldin is prioritizing areas with far less people?
Just setting up to say he won more counties in NY but lost the election.