In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It actually caught me off guard when mail in voting became controversial.
Born and raised WA and thought it was pretty typical to at least have the option of mail in voting available if you want.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
More poling places?
Additional days/hours the polls are open?
Vote by mail?
Avoid angering/motivating masses of voters by not limiting their control over their own bodies?
I moved here from a state with a traditional voting system (once even working as an election judge) so I was used to voting in person.
WA's mail system is much better in every respect; they even pay for the postage.
I'd hate to go back to the old way.
They just need to be prepared for it.
In Dane County, Wisconsin has a similar size & demo Big 10 university with more same day registrations and that county mostly finished counting by 9pm.
I go to southern states occasionally and I really learn what I take for granted living in this state.
It's not perfect but even the other liberal states I've lived in don't have as good a transportation system as Washinon.
I ended up here by accident almost 20 years ago, settling in a very rural area near the coast.
You have every right to proud of your native state - it has proven to be a wonderful place to live.
That is good to hear, and I hope the engagement continues.
My generation was invigorated by the 26th Amendment and the Watergate fiasco.
Hopefully recent events will be a similar watershed moment for another generation.
We need everyone's voice.
What is most important is that they took the time to make their voices heard, no matter how they voted.
Our system doesn't work if people don't vote.
Good for all of them.
I just got an email saying I've been approved but they are waiting on the lawsuits to settle.
Next time my mom complains about how our lives are worst for it I'm pulling that out.