In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Also unclear is the exact source of the $700,000 Santos claimed to have loaned his campaign in 2022, just two years after filing a financial disclosure report during an unsuccessful 2020 congressional run that stated he had no major assets or earned income.
I'm surprised it's state prosecutors because the lying on the FEC form should be federal.
The only state crime I've heard that sounds plausible is that he raised funds for his "charity" that doesn't seem to have existed.
Candidates can loan their campaign fund money, then charge interest on that money.
So he somehow acquired $700k that he then "loaned" to his campaign, and the rates are probably very high.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Basically this guy will collect a check every month for the rest of his life.
And based on the interest rate hes charging it might be a very big check.
There used to be a law against this, which limited payouts to a grand total of $250k, but the supreme court ruled in favor of Ted Cruz earlier this year and now the rule is gone.
So now a candidate might loan his fund a million bucks, but collect 20 million in interest payments over the rest of their lifetime.
So now he can collect an "interest payment" check from his campaign fund every month, as long as there's money in the campaign fund.
So now his backers can funnel money into his pocket by donating to the campaign.
The interest payments on the loan get paid back out of new donations.
So every donation into the campaign fund will eventually be used for an interest payment to the candidate himself.
It creates a clear lane for political contributions to end up in the candidates bank account.
And it's 100% legal.
Thanks SCOTUS.
Thanks Ted Cruz.
Really working hard to make sure people believe in this country by removing any barriers for political graft.
Edit: For those asking for a source.
This is a Supreme Court ruling, it's been widely reported.
A very basic Google search will turn up results from every news outlet in America.
Here's the npr story:
He claimed to have an animal rescue charity.
He raised funds for it.
It's not an incorporated nonprofit.
If he pocketed the money, that would be fraud, which would be a state crime.
That's what I was referencing.