I’m thinkin’ Putin has been planning this thing for his entire time in “office”.
Every trip down the stairs he takes makes him dig in his heels more.
After that we are down to the planes.
Once Ukraine gets the planes, the only real escalation left to the west is troops.
(Disregarding nuclear responses, of course).
Russia has thousands upon thousands of nuclear weapons so even if a large amount of them malfunctioned it's still a doomsday scenario.
The doctrine of both sides was to have so much redundancy that you can perform a retaliatory strike.
Well, maybe so, but I don’t think NATO is gonna put up with this level of violence against civilians endlessly.
The tanks are coming.
The Bradleys are coming.
All kinds of other stuff is coming.
I would imagine that more patriots will come now.
No one wants to hit that lever, but Russia needs to go home.
We need to make it more painful for them to stay and fight than to go home.
And I think at this point we have committed so much to Ukraine that there is no question: we cannot and will not let them lose.
I’d like to hope that Putin’s generals do not let him ride this thing all the way to the bottom.
Maybe Putin is old and doesn’t care if the world is obliterated in an all out nuclear war.
But hopefully some of his generals have families and children and DO care.
And would shoot him in the head if necessary to avoid complete destruction of Russia, which is what would happen.
Because here’s the deal.
Based on the readiness they have displayed so far in this war, and the stories we were hearing in the 1990’s about their nukes being unsecured and not well tended, and the actual nukes we have found laying on the bottom of the Arctic Ocean, I’m guessing that most of what nukes they have would explode inside Russia.
Russia would never recover from nuclear war.
It would be gone forever.
Never to return in any format.
Because the American nukes DO work.
And HAVE been maintained.
And were NOT sold under the table to bad actors after the Cold War.
The rest of the world would survive.
Horribly ruined, and only barely surviving, but not completely destroyed.
This is gonna sound incredibly callous, but why would NATO care about civilian deaths?
This is politics.
Regular human morals don't really come into play.
NATO has an interest in Ukraine winning and would probably prefer few civilian deaths, but the death toll only really matters in as much as how it affects Ukraine's ability to win.
Here’s hoping that if Putin has lost all reason over Ukraine and is willing to press the button, that certain of his generals have children and grandchildren.
Well, for one thing it is against the Geneva Conventions to target civilians.
Putin is targeting civilians.
Which in turn sets him squarely into the war criminal camp.
I think that this is kinda different because Brezhnev got the USSR into Afghanistan.
As time went on they saw fewer and fewer benefits of being there, but nothing was done until Gorbachev came to power.
Only then did Gorbachev make it into a mission to get out.
Brezhnev was already dead, so no blame for all the wasted effort landed on him or on Gorbachev.
Putin got them into Ukraine.
And he’d have to admit he was wrong, that the Russian military is not, in fact, as mighty as the population is led to believe, and that they can’t win.
He’s never gonna do that.
This is a guy who wants to leave a legacy.
Forcing Ukraine back into the fold would be part of a ‘good’ legacy in Russian eyes.
But trying to do that and failing?
?That is a humiliation!
Having your ass kicked by one of your former ‘satellite’ republics?
Yeah.
That’s gonna be a military humiliation for sure.
So they just pretend that their failure is all because of NATO interference and start doing what they always do: start throwing bodies into the machine and counting on attrition to gain them the victory (admittedly, a strategy that did help them win in WWII, but at the cost of 27 million people).