They’re not gonna execute 15,000 people.
They simply don’t have the means to do so, nor would the population and other countries just tolerate it.
They’re using this as a justification to mass execute the more vocal protesters/leaders and to let other protesters know that they could be next if they don’t step back.
These are desperate measures though and desperation usually equals weakness, and I hope protesters understand how close to victory they really might be.
I'm sure this has been said, more than once, before mass executions and genocides...so...not sure why you're so confident they won't murder 15k people.
But no estimate at all not even a range of affected people?!
Even the holocaust one has an estimated range from 3-7 million.
And there are estimates from multiple reputable research institute, human rights groups, and global publications in just a 10 minute google.
The difference is social media.
Not that some haven’t happened during early social media days, but with the invasion of Ukraine people have learned the right way to use it.
To stop it, step in, or get the word out of these things happening.
I’m not saying it’s impossible, as nothing is, however social media should definitely help.
Would they get away with it if they publicly executed 15,000 people in the town square?
Probably not, this is not the Middle Ages anymore nor are they Genghis Khan.
I know this type of shit happened in Srebrenica for instance, but the situation is a bit different now.
There’s no war and they’re killing their own population.
If you kill 15,000 people you will have at least 10,000 very pissed off families and many many more people who were friends with these people.
They’d have to turn into NK in order to maintain power after that and I don’t think the population would tolerate that.
But you know what, if they actually do kill 15,000 people, that might just be the event that finally toppled this insane regime.
Edit: alright I get it.
They do have the means to kill 15,000 people - it doesn’t have to be done humanely like I naively believed they would want to do this.
However it still sounds a bit like a desperate measure to me.
Well it depends.
Would they be able to get away with setting up a gulag type system where they slowly work them to death?
Probably.