You have to know you're doing it wrong when people who support your cause think you're a fucking idiot for the method you're using to get your message out.
On the contrary - decades from now when there are wars over migration/water/liveable climates and people ask “why was nothing done to stop this”, people will point to instances like this when people tried to shift the conversation and the response they got was “yeah but they damaged a drawing, and that’s what was important”.
Doubtful, there are plenty of records of totally asinine and ineffective protest which is marked as such.
Historians even note how they often create sentiments against the protesters.
In the case of "god hates fags", the general population doesn't support this sentiment.
This is irrespective of how the message is communicated out and the method of protest.
What I mean is, people (at large) are against the message "god hates fags" full stop, and it wasn't because of how they chose to say it.
There's no method of protesting that would have made people who disagree with that sentiment suddenly switch sides and agree with it.
Thank you for your reply.
This brings up some good thinking points.
I think I conflated a couple things which caused confusion.
I'm looking for examples where a method of protesting caused people to change their mind about how they felt on the topic being protested, not changing their thoughts on participating in the movement outwardly.
Meanwhile, "climate change is real and we can't keep ignoring it" is accepted by the general public outside of fringe deniers.
This is a concept that exists and is tangible that the majority of the population understands and agrees with.
Throwing tomato soup at a painting might make people roll their eyes, but they're not going to say "Oh that was a dumb way of protesting and now I don't care about climate change.
In fact, I'm switching sides and I'm on team 'do nothing about it'".
That is the type of example I'm looking for.
One where the idea that is being promoted is a widely popular, supported, idea but where the method of protesting made people change how they felt about that topic and caused them to switch sides in favor of the opposite.
I have yet to see someone change their ideology in real practice just because of how someone else protested about something they agreed with, but I know that's anecdotal so that's why I'm trying to find other examples.
Defund the police is a closer example because a good portion of the population is for police reform, the message got twisted into "no police in our society!"
which the larger population doesn't agree with, and the movement fizzled out.
But are there reports of people who started off in favor of police reform and are now against it as a concept because of these protests?
I know people stepped back from the movement, but it wasn't because their ideology changed (they're still in favor of police reform), but rather they were never on board with the idea of no police at all and that's what the movement got twisted into.