In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“The Chinese surveillance balloon is flying at an altitude of 60,000 feet above the continental United States and is roughly the size of 2 or 3 buses.
(Video: The Washinon Post).
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Meanwhile, the Treasury Department has also been active.
Perhaps for the first time since the emerging-market debt crises of the 1990s, the department has effectively marshaled the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to reinforce U.S. global leadership.
Two years ago, when Biden assumed office, China believed that it was overtaking the United States technologically, intimidating it militarily, and winning the race for global respect and popularity against an exhausted, divided America.
Today, in a remarkable turnaround, China is the country that veers between covid-19 lockdowns and casual sacrifice of elders, between clobbering its real estate sector and coddling it, between persecuting its entrepreneurial champions and promising to make nice.
Start with the semiconductor embargo on China, announced last October by the Commerce Department.
This involved a calculated risk: If U.S. allies refused to collaborate, China would import the equipment necessary to produce its own advanced semiconductors, leaving it stronger and more self-sufficient.
But on Jan. 27, the administration reportedly secured the backing of the two most important semiconductor equipment exporters, Japan and the Netherlands.
China’s ability to pursue artificial intelligence and other advanced military technologies will be curbed.
This opportunity has arisen from China’s odd decision to turn a diplomatic advance into the equivalent of a spy balloon that was both ineffective and embarrassingly visible.
Early in his tenure, in 2013, Xi Jinping rolled out his Belt and Road Initiative, an international infrastructure splurge designed to deepen China’s economic ties in Africa and Asia.
Many of these projects were financed with loans, with the result that China has rapidly become the largest official creditor to developing countries.
On the foreign policy side, meanwhile, the Biden team has inflicted a series of humiliations on its chief rival.
A Pentagon official on Feb. 3 said that the balloon represented a “violation of international law,” but does not pose a “military or physical threat.” (Video: The Washinon Post).
The shooting down of China’s comic-book spy balloon extends China’s humiliation, and the Biden team deserves credit for pushing back against Xi and turning his aggression against him.
But at the same time the administration must also remember that China remains a major power, and that the White House better find ways of working with Beijing.
When Blinken eventually does visit, his job will be to combine strenh with calm.
The thing about cold wars is that you don’t want them to escalate.”.
Initially, this looked like a genius Chinese move to win friends and influence people.
Now that economic conditions have soured, free-flowing Chinese loans have created the conditions for debt crises in several emerging nations.
To make matters worse, China refuses to learn from the Western experience with poor-world debt, which teaches that it’s best to soften payment terms quickly.
That way, borrowers have a chance to return to growth and repay some of the money.
Plus, they won’t hate you as much.
Hot on the heels of the India deal, the White House secured a victory in the Philippines.
At the end of the Cold War, the Philippines closed U.S. military bases on its territory, and a partial reopening in 2014 was derailed when Manila opted to make nice with China.
But on Thursday, after assiduous prodding by the Biden team, the Philippines expanded the number of sites to which the U.S. military has access from five to nine.
That will enhance the United States’ ability to respond to Chinese provocations in the South China Sea — including, in the most extreme scenario, an attack on Taiwan.
Zambia is ground zero of China’s self-defeating obstinacy.
As part of the Belt and Road Initiative, the African nation’s previous and deeply corrupt government commissioned a hydropower station, two international airports, two stadiums and a railway.
Chunks of money disappeared; and when covid hit the world economy, Zambia defaulted.
Last year, after the election of a cleaner government, the IMF promised a rescue package on the condition that creditors take a suitable hit: The IMF wasn’t going to pump money into Zambia if the cash was going straight into the pockets of irresponsible lenders.
China and its fellow creditors duly promised to renegotiate the debts.
Half a year later, China has ensured that the discussions have gone nowhere.