In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The results of the 2018 Florida Gubernatorial Race was 4,076,186 to 4,043,723; a difference of only some 33,000 votes.
If you don’t think every vote in the Florida election matters then you are certainly mistaken.
The million person estimate I find odd.
There are a little over 15 million registered voters in Florida.
That’s a lot of Felons proportionally if true.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Such a spotlight on these state semantics.
Yes it is important at the state level but absolutely no attention paid to the federal elections with federal felonies.
Nobody is talking about that.
Let federal felons vote in federal elections.
Last I have seen it was congress shooting it down all way back during bush jr's presidency.
Enough distractions from something that can so easily represent equal rights.
The feds can overtake much state activity in many realms but they wont do it.
Similar to thc federal criminal guidelines.
Make a sincere move politicians not fluff.
I continue to gauge current talking points as insincere at best and blatantly malicious at worst due to glossing over obvious remedies to what these people in office persist over incessantly.
After florida, lets move on to federal convictions in federal elections.
Congress needs to stop shooting that down... And current politicans stop talking about voting rights or reforms while turning a blind eye to this and things such as thc scheduling.
Set the example for the states I say.
True effort is easy as pie to move forward on but we remain distracted and unfocused on real obvious answers.