In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Look the man is a pathetic self interested bastard who was willing to cover up sexual abuse scandals for his political career.
Back in 2009, Obama was addressing congress when Representative Joe Wilson yelled, "You lie!".
This was the fallout:
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Even assholes like Joe Wilson used to at the very least offer an apology for outbursts like this.
Given the current timeline, it won't be long until we start seeing actual fistfights in Congress.
3. maybe you notice your shoelaces are untied and you gotta fix it cuz safety first.
"Now how does the loop go?
Darn let me start over".
1.
You're getting a little older so your eyesight and hearing are a little less sharp that day.
Took you a little while to notice.
... gosh darn you for making me "stand up" for Jim Jordan.
3 time All American in college wrestling isn't someone who peaked in H.S., that is a top tier college athletic career.
And if we aren't talking just physically (which 95% of us peaked in H.S.
or college from a pure physical stand point) the man is a U.S. representative.
Difficult to say that isn't better than a H.S.
state wrestling champ.
But saying he peaked in H.S.
says more about our coping mechanisms for how our lives have gone than his.
You might mean his mental and emotional development peaked/halted in/around h.s.
in which case I'd say yeah evidence points that ways.
I was pointing out that a) his sports career peaked in college not H.S.
and b) his non sports career is currently peaking (or still rising).
The man is a U.S. Rep. not some used car salesman.
Also he is still younger than the average house rep and looks to be in decent shape (at least for D.C).
If there was some house brawl he would be a top contender.
Come on now.
While the victims were at a collegiate level, the abuse and its enablemement seem to have been at a professional level.
Not to mention we may not have heard about his abuse enabling (2nd word potentially unnecessary) after this scandal.
I mean the man might have perfected his technique and it's rude of you to assume otherwise.