In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Normal people aren't concerned, but what about the reactionary gay/trans hating constituency that put him in office?
I mean any of those old Obama birthers should be absolutely apoplectic and shitting bricks over this guy because he essentially proved that their worst fear is possible: our electoral system has approximately zero safeguards against someone just making their entire identity up and getting elected.
They should be screaming bloody murder for House Republicans to toss this guy.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It’s not the fact that you did drag.
Drag is fabulous, wonderful and to be celebrated.
It’s your lies, your new political opposition to your own suspect membership in the LGBTQ community and your revolting grift on everyone and everything you touch.
I mean at this point it really means nothing to me if he denied it once or a million times.
It's clearly evident he's lied compulsively in a number of other ways... denying this is what he's "supposed to do" so it moves the needle exactly zero in light of the greater body of evidence that he's essentially an antisocial personality who has manged to dupe everyone else about almost everything else about him.
It's the story of the boy who cried wolf... Like if you lie over and over and over you don't get the benefit of the doubt and you make it harder on yourself to actually believe anything you say in the future.
I mean at this point I don't think it's even been conclusively proven what his real name is...
So whether or not he's a drag queen is really kind of besides the point, except that it's really, really funny that he may very well be since he was elected as a MAGA republican.