It's highly condional.
In short, IF russia withdraws all troops from Ukraine AND there is a peace deal that both sides agree upon, THEN in time trade could resume.
I mean of all countries I can at least understand why Germany would be the one to understand after a terrible historic event, that help to change and get back into international relationship is important.
Because the more isolated they become the more likely nothing will change if not get worse.
In some ways that's sort of what happened in Germany between ww1 and ww2.
So I really don't understand what's wrong with this statement.
I don't think this would fly in the case of Russia.
It is clear that, with the current leadership, they cannot be taken at their word.
Any promise they make, on any matter, cannot be taken seriously.
Ukraine is now in many ways stronger despite the horrific tragedy because they are much more involved internationally and have the support.
Russia will be left with nothing soon.
They will also require assistance if we want to see any change there.
Well germany had a change in leadership, deadly court trials for the worst war criminals together with the promise of never doing shit like this again.
Many don't know this, but Germany is a barron wasteland with absolutely nothing because of what they did in ww2, they were never ever allowed to trade with anybody ever again, wasn't allowed any international cooperation, and left there to die.
/s.
We'll see how things go.
I was mostly implying that's the change Russia must see before we accept them back, but I see how that hasn't been clear.
I was more focused in making a point that Germany of all countries would understand the need of help despite the horrific crimes they committed.
I personally really wish for the sake of everybody that Russia finally see some drastic positive change, whatever that even means.
And if that requires assistance then by all means it must be done.
Would be better for everybody.
But lastly, I was not implying the assistance for Russian change is in any way meant it should shadow support for Ukraine or be of more importance.
I'm just saying it might come necessary at some point because anything can happen.
Edit: oops I thought I was replying to the other person who replied to me because the points made were very similar and I'm hungover as hell.
Well still works I suppose.
Yeah, somebody else pointed out the occupation part, and I admit that did slip my mind.
So you make a good point.
I was mostly focused on the fact that of all countries Germany would be the one to understand the importance of it.
Anyway we'll see what happens.
The war is far from over and honestly anything can happen.
Fair point on the full occupation part, but I never said 'poor' Russia.
I said they'll need help if we want to see any change.
Meaning if we don't want to see any change then they should leave them to their own devices.
Of course drawing 1:1 comparison is impossible since there's a lot of differences as well.
But still I think some parallels can be drawn rather with what ww2 was for Germany.
I think you took me a bit too literally.
It was more of a figure of speech to describe where their standing on international stage is, and their future projection.
I didn't mean Ukraine is physically stronger, I meant they're positioning themselves into a place where they can have a brighter future.
They went from somewhat shadowed country into having the attention in the entire world.
And they are getting support from all over, including promises of rebuilding Ukraine.
When the Soviet union lost the cold war disintegrated, Russia was in an absolutely humiliatingly terrible state.
Their economic reform made surviving extremely difficult while the criminals stole things left and right.
I often hear it was absolutely humiliating for Russians.
Out of the desperation came Putin who in fact sorted a lot of the immediate issues Russia had, and obviously this was welcomed by the Russian population.
In many ways the way things happened is quite simmilar.
And Russia is in the opposite path.
Their economy is taking a massive toll, corruption is also continuing, and they have huge chunk of their manpower lost.
The world shuns them, and probably will stay that way for a while, further spiraling the country into worse state.
They lack the industry without the west to really get themselves going again.
That's a very bleak projection and that's what I meant with 'they'll be left with nothing'.
Ukraine has a lot of energy potential that hasn't been tapped into yet.
I think if the war ever comes to an end, that's definitely a possibility many countries are keeping note.