In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That was for congratulating ukrainian neonazis in killing rapey russian neonazis and for dieing in place of non-shitty ukrainians, but we don't say that last part out loud.
Not here for whataboutism, i think these are both appalling acts that deserve political cancellation, but just pointing out hypocrisy.
But remember when Joe Biden gave a eulogy for a grand wizard of the KKK then the democrats closed ranks to nominate him for president?
Oh, FFS… lemme guess, you’re talking about the dude who was in the KKK for a couple of years in his early twenties, then left and denounced them, right?
The same guy who then spent decades working for equal rights and was eulogized by the NAACP?
That guy??
?
Is apologizing for white supremacists your full time job?
Or only when they are democrats.
He spent 53 years in congress opposing all civil rights legislation and changed his tune at the age of 88.
I'm talking about the kkk organizer that ran his own chapter of the group and while in the senate filibustered the 1964 civil rights act and voted against the 1965 voting rights act.
Although you are right he did renounce the kkk in his 2005 memoir, he never worked for civil rights.
You should really write to the NAACP and tell them they got it all wrong when they wrote that he “became a champion for civil rights and liberties" and "came to consistently support the NAACP civil rights agenda".
It’s good to know that you’re so much better informed than they!
I'm not a right winger.
I'm a left winger, supporting for instance, single payer healthcare instead of mandatory third party insurance even if it is unaffordable to use.
I'm not here to make apologies for racists, that's what you are doing.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I'm just pointing out that you don't care about racist dems, but put down republicans for not caring about racist republicans.
Your party matters more than your principles.
This is why we can't have nice things.