The situation is particularly acute for artillery munitions.
At the height of the battles across the front lines last summer, Ukraine’s army was firing an estimated 7,000 shells a day, a fortnight’s worth of maximum US production.
Ukraine has only a few friendly central European suppliers for its 152mm Soviet standard shells.
The continuing shift to NATO standard artillery and 155mm shells will only increase the burden on western suppliers.
They really need long range weapons to interrupt Russia's supply lines behind the front lines and not waste manpower and munitions concentrating solely on the front lines themselves, thus saving ammo while slowing down the enemy.
To drastically reduce the Russian army's key weapon - the artillery they use today on the front lines - they need missiles that will destroy their depots (the Crimean Peninsula alone has more than 100 artillery warehouses).
Boeing’s proposed system, - Ground-Launched Small Diameter Bomb (GLSDB) would be ideal or indeed any cheap, small precision bombs fitted onto abundantly available rockets would be great.
NATO's reluctance is because they fear they would be used to strike within Russia's own borders thus escalating the war to a new level.
There hasn't been a conventional ground war like this in decades, so there's no first-hand institutional knowledge of the staggering amount of ammunition that such wars require.
Ukraine is also using artillery for missions that NATO would conduct by air strike.
And obviously, NATO has to maintain a sufficient stockpile of ammo for its own use.
The US still has a two-war doctrine, where they plan to maintain enough materiel to fight two wars at once, and that means there is a hard cap on how much can be shipped off to Ukraine.
Finally, it does not help that much of the rest of NATO has been underfunding their militaries since the day the Cold War ended, and so stocks were too low to begin with.
Very good point, and it also helps that any war with the other major adversary, China, is going to be almost entirely air/sea/amphibious as far as US involvement is concerned.
So there are a lot of factors for the planners to take into account.
Really, I'm mean wtf.
12 months of supplying 1 country with some ammunition in a local 1 on 1 conflict that it isn't actually involved in and NATO is already struggling with ammunition shortages.
Fuck me that didn't take long.