> But doctors at several hospitals in eastern Poland refused to terminate the pregnancy, citing a so-called conscience clause that allows them not to carry out an abortion if they feel it goes against their beliefs.
It won’t change until someone like her dies as a a direct result of doctors playing pass the parcel.
In Ireland it was Savita Halapanaver’s death that made the public finally say ‘fuck this’ and voted a couple years later to legalise abortion.
In November '21 there was a loud case of a woman forced to wait until her non-viable fetus dies before they abort it (otherwise doctor wouldn't take responsibility due to the existing law).
She naturally got infected and died herself.
Imagine the horror the person must experience daily as they are forced to keep providing their body to another organism and wait until it dies and likely kills them as well.
All because some religion nutjobs have "their beliefs" and decide for everyone else that a fetus must have more rights than any living human being.
That’s why in ireland we had a booming export business of our women taking the ferry to the UK to get abortions performed over there.
It’s still happening as far as I know because the abortion services in ireland are only in the process of being set up.
If by "accidentally" you mean "with a poorly obfuscated intention to exert even more control over a portion of the population (most probably women)", then I would not be surprised at all.
And I bet they'd easily find a "good" religious reason to do so.
Well, it turned out that that was the case but at the time it was hard to say how close it would be in a referendum.
Many people felt that it was very likely to pass but by what margin was the question.
Nobody felt 100% certain though because most people could remember the first pro choice protests in Dublin and that was back in the late 80’s.
It was hard to be certain when we’d been arguing over the same crap for most of our lives.
Divorce and abortion were the two highly controversial topics in Irish politics over the last 35 years.
Nowadays I believe it’s becoming part of your hiring contract when you work in a hospital.
Eventually the list of things your conscience can absolve you from will not include abortions.
So no punishment for abstaining medical staff yet but that won’t be the case forever.
I would imagine so, yes.
But thanks to the legislation the number of occasions where this would come up would be tiny.
There are abortion services centres now where people meeting the criteria can get a termination (NB: this is not open to every kind of circumstance and so is not being used as a form of ‘contraception’ as some propagandists have lied about in the past).
If the majority of terminations happen in specific clinics, then you’d assume the doctors working there are ok with the idea of performing abortions.
The situation you are alluding to where a doctor would be going against his conscience would be very rare and would likely only happen if a complication was discovered in a person seeking a termination that required hospitalisation beyond the clinics ability to provide.
It’s very early days for this kind of thing in ireland though, and the services are still only being set up, but at least with the legislation change we won’t punish people for being party to a termination.
Prior to the legislation change, doctors, nurses, the father and the mother could face criminal prosecution if they performed/received an abortion.
The doctors/medical staff could lose their medical licenses and never practice medicine again.
That’s the least bad stuff that happened.
Worse, was that we were leaving people with unwanted kids which leads to familial misery for all involved and in some cases where the pregnancy had failed and abortions were needed to save the life of the mother- we didn’t.
We let them get worse until the body rejected the foetus, or the mother died.
So balance all that needless human tragedy against a doctors conscience and you can see how people choose the practical answer in the end.