In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Chappelle Show, only had three seasons on Comedy Central, hosted by and chiefly starring Dave Chappelle, of course.
“When keeping it real goes wrong” was a sketch act on the show.
Most of the time I was in Italy, we were with a tour guide.
They never outright talked about that part of their history.
It was always vague talk of "the war".
Italy has had its own troubled history with fascism lite in the last few decades when it comes to guys like Berlusconi or Salvani:
For example, we visited a castle where Leonardo had stayed and painted.
The guide talked about how during "the war", the city was bombed and debris was pushed into the dried out moat.
If you knew nothing about history, you'd have no idea who was on who's side.
You can't lose that part of your history.
After all, what was that joke about the average ability of an Italian soldier in the field during World War I?
No doubt accurate, but it’s the kind of cloying remark that only causes the more emotional type of human to support fascism and claim “it’s because people always call them stupid!”.
That's why I was so surprised when they specifically mentioned mussolini and described how he was strung up so everyone could see he was dead in the center of town and showed us the spot.
So while it’s a bit simplistic to say that Germany by comparison has paid their tribute in blood for the sins of their past via strict penalties for flag displays and overt Nazi pronouncements, Italy often seems to lack that central identity to be proud of/ that which makes them susceptible to the flattering lies of populism in the first place?