.
The "donations" to Ukraine from the US have been largely mothballed, outdated kit that appears on the balance sheet as its as-new replacement cost.
There's a decent chance that the US is saving money on the venture since by sending it to Ukraine they don't have to pay to maintain and decommission it (they did this with aid to Iraq as well, apparently).
That's not the case for all aid, of course - it's not all old kit and ammo is an everpresent concern.
That's one of the many reason's I've always treated "complaints" about aid to Ukraine as either maliciously dishonest or ignorant and mean spirited.
You're also completely leaving out that all of the military aid packages have been part of the Lend Lease Act and will either be repaid monetarily or by requiring Ukraine to use US contractors to rebuild.
Land lease is tricky, because that would allow Ukraine to order what it needs.
And that would be tanks, long-range rocket artillery and recon unmanned drones.
Even the tanks were sending were mothballed.
We’re just paying to have them cleaned up and the uranium replaced with tungsten.
General Dynamics is the only company that does this and they were awarded the contract for Ukraines tanks.
So while the government said Ukraine was getting tanks “from an industry order” and makes you think brand new tank.. it’s actually just some old tanks from a warehouse somewhere getting refurbished.
Honestly the return on value of aid to ukraine is off the charts.
Between the fake land-lease and an ability to send what's not really needed based on the military speniding, the US had chosen the seconds.
Such decision has its own benefits and drawbacks in comparison to the true land-lease.
The US and the other countries had refused until recently to send tanks, long-range rockets and drones are out-of-question.
No, that was from a separate account created specifically for Ukraine.
Officially nothing has been sent to Ukraine under “lend lease” - and the only reason that bill was needed was waiving red tape.
Essentially it makes moving things easier and faster.
Everything given to Ukriane (so far anyways) has been considered a gift from the American people.
I think the US wants to avoid sending depleted uranium armor or any other that is a potential trade secret in case the tank is captured.
Challenger 2 has a different armor type, quite advanced and maybe even superior.
The UK is not using depleted uranium, though.
That’s not how it works.
General Dynamics was awarded the contract, they specialize in refurbishing old M1’s and replacing DU with tungsten.
They basically take an old take and clean it up, swap the metals and ship it off to whoever bought it.
But it’s not manufactured, just refurbished.
Similar to what the Czechs are doing to T-72’s.
Take an old tank and give it a makeover.
As for the Abrams tanks, there are version with depleted Uranium armor and without it.
Ukraine will get the version without it.