In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
In light of Dominion’s lawsuit against Fox for spreading lies months on end about them, is it possible for the government to sue Fox or Carlson for something similar?
It seems incredible how Fox’s cadre of pundits can say basically whatever they want and the worst that has ever happened to them is getting fired (and the only two that come to mind are Beck and O’Reilly).
When Tucker suggests the government purposely caused a train carrying toxic chemicals to derail in a predominantly white area the damage from the statement is already done.
A new fake conspiracy is born that some fraction of his audience will nod along with.
At what point can he or Fox actually be held accountable for what they’re publishing to millions of viewers?
I haven't watched Tucker's show so I don't know if he said this.
I wouldn't put it past him but I don't know.
For the purpose of my answer I will assume he did.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It would be very hard for the government to sue.
In some jurisdictions publicly funded entities can't sue for defamation.
One example of this is that infamous fake gang rape story alleged to have happened on the University of Virginia campus, published by Rolling Stone back in 2014.
Its the one that quickly fell apart and it became obvious it was fully invented by a mentally disturbed young woman.
Look up "A Rape on Campus".
Thats the title of the article.
The university itself was accused of covering the alleged rape up.
This rape story was totally invented.
The university itself was a publicly funded institution so couldn't sue.
But a specific UVA employee, Nicole Eramo, was accused of covering up the story and discouraging the accuser from reporting her story.
That wasn't true.
She encouraged the accuser to share the story with police.
If Tucker accused a specific individual in the government maybe that person could sue.
They probably wouldn't.
But maybe they could.
But I doubt the federal government as a whole could sue Fox News.
That would be bad optics.
I am not sure what exactly Tucker said.
It is hard to sue Fox News's primetime shows because tbose shows are not classified as news but as opinion based shows where the hosts share their opinions.
Fox News is in trouble with Dominion because those primetime opinion shows implied or stated that the conspiracy theories about Dominion were credible, or endorsed the theories.
Texts reveal the hosts though differently.
Why Fox is in trouble is because its actual NEWS shows reported that the theories were not credible.
These Fox News news shows don't get the same ratings and are conservative leaning editoriallly but they clearly reported the voter fraud theories were false and that the decision desk at Fox News( which despite the reputation of Fox News their decision desk and polling unit is actually one of the best in the business) said Biden had won.
If the opinion hosts at Fox News had bothered to pay attention to the reporting of their own news network they would've have known the theories were false.