In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Even if they do control the house it's only barely which means McCarthy or whoever has the leadership role will have a very hard time getting the things they want done because they have the crazy wing that will burn the place down to get what they want too.
So now you're in a situation where you either give in to the crazies to get their votes but if you do that then the "moderates" might not give you their votes.
If they had a larger majority then they'd have some room to play with but they don't.
The House usually swings against the incumbent so I personally think Biden was expecting it and setting hopes high.
But the reason why he got so much legislation done in two years was probably because he knew he'd have two years.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They can still approve judges with a split senate.
There’s the idea that if the R’s House lead is small enough, they’ll have to take a more moderate stance to actually get anything done.
Plus there’s the possibility of the very few not crazy Rs siding with Ds for some things.
Hard to say.
GOP didn't exactly kick the democrats asses last night like they were hoping to which is really weird for a 1st term democratic president.
Historically speaking it should have been a total wipe-out, but it wasn't!
Without T\\\p in the picture the rhetoric about stolen elections and whatnot seems to have died down considerably except for people like Lake.
I could be imagining it but it kind of seems like people everywhere are just tired of the fucking gong show which is why so many Trump backed people didn't win in places they should have.
But hey, on the other hand the GOP has just been cranking up the partisanship to the nth degree for years now so maybe it's just wishful thinking.