People here never have seen places like Murghab.
For some of us who live in Europe, Murghab is like at the end of the world.
I still remember vividly welder helping me there.
My heart goes out to people in Pamirs.
Haha.. my story from Murghab is that on the road there middle bracket of exhaust failed and started woobling a lot.
I was asking for a welder when I got to village with my broken russian and I was pointed in some alley.
I found the tiny house with a big stack of random car parts there.
Knocked on the door and a girl aged 8ish opened.
I asked for welder and pointed towards my car, she said her dad is at the bazaar.
She asked us to wait and ran down the street.
Half an hour later she was back with dad, I showed him the problem and he knew exactly what to do.
He found some metal piece that looked it would be fine.
He bended it into right shape using hammer, cut it and welded it together.
The only power tools he had was a welder (connected to car battery) and an angle grinder.
He had to make a hole through the new bracket, we would use drill.
But he used hammer and angle grinder to make two perfect holes.
Welded the piece on to my car using sunglasses (he had welders helmet, but somehow decided not to use).
Asked for 20$ (a lot for the region, but I don't have problem paying people who do good work) and we were back on the road.
I asked in Murghab on the petrol station for any diesel for my truck as there was still 400km to the end of the pass.
They said there is none today, maybe tomorrow or day after.
Thankfully I had caluclated that I have enough fuel left to reach Kyrgyzstan.
Driving the Pamirs with my own car was the best thing that happend in my life.
Here is a video with some traditional music:
That's funny, I also had a welder help me there.
And his son.
His wife came out to us and said, in English (which shocked me) "look at my baby, my baby mongolia".
We cracked up as the little guy looked like an infant Genghis Khan.
They might be as big as your face and move at the speed of lightning, but they're harmless to humans.
I'll take the spiders over an earthquake any day.