By the way, not that anyone said otherwise, but that military industrial complex is what allowed the United States to ship an industry level capacity of munitions to Ukraine.
It just worked!
Here’s our return.
20+ years of bloated defense budget spending with stockpiles filled to the brim of ready to use equipment specifically designed to counter the tactics utilized by RU.
Now we get to unload obsolete US stock of 20+ year old equipment to finally be utilized for what it was designed for.
Not only that but the US is allocated the moral high ground as one larger nation attempts to impose its authority over its smaller neighbor.
This is a perfect dream for the DoD.
The US have given far more as a single country to Ukraine, than all of Europe combined.
Europe can’t have it both ways, with the US giving Ukraine weapons and selling them stuff at the same costs citizens pay in the US.
Seriously, people who write these article simultaneously want zero military spending, zero weapons contractors, and the United States be able to do what it did for Ukraine.
I think it's more likely the case that this is just content mill stuff; outlets like Business Insider have to fill their front page, the news is more business now than it's ever been, so even nothingburgers like this can get page views and ad sales and that's more profitable than a blank white square.
Plus, I mean, it is something that someone said, it's not like Business Insider made the story up, it's just kind of, like, yeah, the United States is profiting off of this war, there's a name for it, it's a known issue, but what do you want us to do about it right now?
No, I don't think the writer of this story wanted anything less than to make a paycheck or anything more than to report the news of the day.
Presumably there are people in the world who don't know about the United States military industrial complex, I guess now's the best possible time to learn about it, though.
Meanwhile the US is like: "Well you're welcome to step in anytime you'd like.
No?
Your idealistic anti-defense industry rhetoric has left you without...
Defense?
".