In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
A Pvt company obtained the license to manufacture the battery, decided to break the terms of the license, and shifted production to China.
Generally, US companies with valuable IPs will not set up the factory for most critical components overseas - lest there are leakage and the IP is diluted.
BTW, this happened during Rick Perry's time - Trump's DOE secretary and the former governor of TX - while Trump was spewing populust anti-China tirade.
"I gave my earth shattering technology to Chinese manufacturers to save money and not pay for American salaries and they used that information to produce their own technologies They are the criminals".
It ended up in China because no one in USA wanted to invest in bringing it to market.
And that's after the millions of tax payer money was spent on years of R&D.
Kinda sick of hearing this...
The OpSec, societal norms, and commonsense for furthering technological advances in America is so ridiculously crappy it's no wonder we're on our way to being eclipsed in production, quality, and advancement of most things outside of digital scams, forcing ads into peoples eyes, and obselescent products with rubber stamped safety/reliability guarantees.
I think the one mine in USA is trying to scale up some onsite processing and refining but like the factories it's still years and years away.
It's why China has been years ahead... for years.
USA is just now figuring that out and it's not just batteries.
China has been going crazy with green energy in general for awhile now.
Yup.
China is the leading producer/installer of all green energy, not just solar panels.
They are hell bent on being energy independent.
USA could be diplomatic about it.
Try and work out some good deals with China.
Set up some trade agreements and some contracts.
Instead politicians are passing laws to cut off China from selling their green energy tech.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Most of the laws recently passed would have been much better received 10 years ago but now it’s just a low blow.
Even the car makers in Europe are pissed off.
It’s just confusing to me.
Buy from China while tooling up domestic production at the same time.
This one or the other thing is definitely going to widen the gap and I just remembered all those laws and rules about phasing out this and that by 2030.
It’s going to get real interesting real quick when some areas kick their fossil fuel habit before others.
Start thinking about the details and knock off effects.
For example all the businesses that make bolts for gas cars, mechanics, gas stations, and the fact that once you buy an EV you can actually drive it for 20 years… and not really need to buy a new one because it still works.
This is why USA can’t import EVs from China.
All the big car makers wouldn’t exist in 5 years.
It wasn’t really a tech leak for nefarious purposes.
It was just business.
Guy tried to get it to market in USA.
No one wanted to though.
But China did.
So they just off shored the work.
Like every other USA owned company.
2012-2017 was the start of the companies transition over to more China manufacturing.