I believe it was the Brazilian embassy that he hid out in for years and according to the embassy staff he lived in filth, never cleaned up after himself or his cat and was demanding of the staff.
Assange is a Russian stooge who directly interfered with the US elections when he chose to release only the DNCs emails and not the RNC.
This man has everything that is coming to him and he deserves it despite how many reddit tankies tell you otherwise.
He also fueled the lies spread by the likes of Fox News about Seth Rich being the source of the stolen materials to cover the fact that he got them directly from the GRU (Russian military intelligence agency), as explained in Mueller's report (details on Rich in the last section):
Officers from Unit 26165 (GRU) stole thousands of documents from the DCCC and DNC networks, including significant amounts of data pertaining to the 2016 U.S. federal elections.
Stolen documents included internal strategy documents, fundraising data, opposition research, and emails from the work inboxes of DNC employees.130.
The GRU’s operations extended beyond stealing materials, and included releasing documents stolen from the Clinton Campaign and its supporters.
The GRU carried out the anonymous release through two fictitious online personas that it created—DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0—and later through the organization WikiLeaks.
The GRU was also in contact through the Guccifer 2.0 persona with a former Trump Campaign member \[Roger Stone\].
Guccifer 2.0 wrote to Stone via private message, “thank u for writing back .
.
.
do u find anyt\[h\]ing interesting in the docs i posted?” On August 17, 2016, the GRU added, “please tell me if i can help u anyhow .
.
.
it would be a great pleasure to me.” On September 9, 2016, the GRU—again posing as Guccifer 2.0—referred to a stolen DCCC document posted online and asked Stone “what do u think of the info on the turnout model for the democrats entire presidential campaign.” Stone responded, “pretty standard.”155 The investigation did not identify evidence of other communications between Stone and Guccifer 2.0.
In order to expand its interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the GRU units transferred many of the documents they stole from the DNC and the chairman of the Clinton Campaign to WikiLeaks.
GRU officers used both the DCLeaks and Guccifer 2.0 personas to communicate with WikiLeaks through Twitter private messaging and through encrypted channels, including possibly through WikiLeaks’s private communication system.
Shortly after the GRU’s first release of stolen documents through dcleaks.com in June 2016, GRU officers also used the DCLeaks persona to contact WikiLeaks about possible coordination in the future release of stolen emails.
On June 14, 2016, @dcleaks\_ sent a direct message to @WikiLeaks, noting, “You announced your organization was preparing to publish more Hillary’s emails.
We are ready to support you.
We have some sensitive information too, in particular, her financial documents.
Let’s do it together.
What do you think about publishing our info at the same moment?
Thank you.”159.