I haven't kept up with recent events, but as I recall, the Roman Catholic Church, in the catechism, defines homosexuality as being "intrinsically disordered" and forbids gay people from receiving communion (as though such a prohibition could ever be enforced...).
The Anglican and Presbyterian Churches I really don't know anything about their positions on homosexuality.
I'm Catholic, so that's why I know the Catholic Church's position.
Now I stipulate that statement by saying I have not kept up with recent events.... maybe something has changed that I am not aware of.
But assuming that the Church's stance on homosexuality is the same, then I hardly trust them to speak as an objective authority on LGBT issues.
NOW, this IS a very important event, because it is demonstrating ecumenism, cooperation, and shared priorities across Churches/communions.
"Joint statements" such as this one coming from the highest authorities of three different denominations would have been unheard of as recently as 60 years ago, maybe even 40 years ago (pre Nostra Aetate).
In 2014, the General Assembly passed a measure that permits ministers and sessions (local church government), “to use their own discernment to conduct same-sex marriage ceremonies where allowed by law.” In addition, the General Assembly recommended an amendment to update the description of marriage in the denomination’s Book of Order so that it would no longer exclude same-sex couples.
Effective June 2015, the amendment to the Book of Order updates the description of marriage as “a unique commitment between two people, traditionally a man and a woman.” The latter was added during debate of the amendment on the floor of the General Assembly out of respect to the denomination’s more conservative members.
At the 223rd General Assembly in St. Louis in June 2018, the Presbyterian Church (USA) voted unanimously on resolution calrifying the church's position that "religious freedom is not a license for discrimination against any of God’s people, and cannot justify the denial of secular employment or benefits, healthcare, public or commercial services or goods, or parental rights to persons based on race, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion or gender expression.
".
You are correct, the others have elected to continue hatred (i.e.
"conservatism.")
So, I wanted to see how many of each denomination there are.
PCUSA = 1.7 Million.
PCA = 371K.
ECO = 115K.
EPC = 125K.
So, PCUSA, the "liberal" one is about 3 times bigger than the others combined.
Sad that so many left the mainstream denomination to continue hate.
Of the four main Presbyterian denominations, the PCA, OPC, and EPC differ with the PCUSA on the issue.
For those not aware.
So not entirely encompassing of all Presbyterians.
In 2010 the General Assembly approved an amendment that allows ordination of openly LGBTQ ministers at the discretion of individual presbyteries and sessions, essentially allowing each congregation the decision to ordain or not.
The amendment was ratified in 2011, following approving votes from a majority of presbyteries.
In 1996, Erin Swenson became the first transgender minister to serve in the Presbyterian Church (USA) when members voted to continue her ministry following her transition from male to female.
The denomination’s history of ordaining women as elders reaches back to 1883.
Pope Francis has been very consistent, and I believe he has been in line with John Paul II also.
On a number of different topics: people sin in all kinds of ways- you still need to be kind and caring towards towards them.
Divorce is sinful and neglecting your marriage vows is sinful (which is what you are doing if you get civilly divorced and move on to remarry or just living apart)- be considerate and loving towards people who are going through that.
The church's position that homosexuality is sinful doesn't mean the church has to condone people being hateful towards homosexuals or cannot speak out against laws that criminalize it and enable mistreatment of people.
I don't recall ever saying that believing that homosexual acts being sinful and wanting people to be welcoming and kind to homosexuals were "inherently contradictory positions".
I'm getting a bit technical, but I actually don't think that Pope Francis or anybody involved IS being insincere.
I just think that the message is likely to fall flat given the Church's track record on LGBT issues and the public's perception of it.
Pope Francis has repeatedly made the point that we believe in a loving and forgiving God.
And everyone is a human being who falters and sins in many ways.
The church is here for everyone and it is not for us, but for God, to judge people in the end.
God is here for anyone who seeks repentance and no sin is so great you cannot get mercy from God.
Christ hung out with sinners and was loving and caring towards them.
As followers of Christ we need to be welcoming and caring towards everyone else- regardless of their sins or difference in beliefs.
By the way, I remember my parish priest growing up saying that he didn't agree that 7 and 8 year olds had reached the Age of Reason.
Was he not Catholic?
I didn't say you outright said that.
But if you point out that the church doesn't condone homosexuality as a way to question the sincerity of the Catholic Church"s participation in this message condemning anti-gay laws, then that is what you're implying.
I remember my dad saying that pre Second Vatican, to visit a mosque or synagogue constituted the Sin of Scandal.
John Paul II did both....if he had done so a decade or a few decades earlier, would he have been sinning?
Yes, and there are a number of things wrong with such an answer, but to start with the most basic, you are-- by your own definition-- quite unlikely to be Catholic yourself.