In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
An annual contract with no exceptions for emergencies AND can result in loss of license and livelyhood moving forward?
Sounds a bit like indentured servitude.
We wonder why schools are having to go to 4 day school weeks because there are so few teachers left?
We wonder why teacher colleges are shutting down everywhere, with over 100,000 less teacher undergrad degrees compared to the 1970s?
What's extra wild is that there's a popular belief spread by conservative media that American teachers make six figures salaries and get insane pensions, like the last time I heard it, it was 300k a year, as the norm.
This chart defaults to teachers with 15 years experience.
The average public school teacher salary in the US is 56k, with pensions ranging from 20k a year to around 50k.
They are working around 54 hours a week, which means that ultimately they are only making about $28 an hour as an average for the 36 weeks school is in session.
Typically they don't get paid for the remaining 16 weeks in the year.
So, I actually pulled the wrong number for the average.
The average is actually closer to 56k, meaning that a public school teacher, on average, works for a little under $28 an hour, for the 36 weeks that school is in session.
They typically don't get paid when school isn't in session.
Yeah, but the cost of living is abyssmal in America for teachers, and the rest of the world actually respects teachers to get them places to live and find financial security.
America has no respect for teachers, and they wonder why they have to outsource to the Phillipines to find teachers.