In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Most legislation seems like it is designed to send a message instead of actually becoming law.
Is this normal in other countries?
Is this just political theatre?
the House has passed this bill a few times now, but the Senate cannot get to 60.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I really struggle to understand this move because it's not an issue that will motivate independents to vote blue.
It only galvanizes republicans.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
If Dems feel emboldened maybe they should consider responding to the voters and work on legislation that supports female bodily autonomy.
Exit polls showed very clearly how little people care about gun policy compared to abortion and inflation.
Yes, it will motivate Independents.
People are sick of mass murder of kids.
If you don't get that you're ten years out if date.
No the top won't support it.
But they're going to be on the record nor for body count after body count.
Every school shooting funeral needs to have their names tagged on to the photos.
If you want more generations to grow up with story after story after story of their classmates being murdered for people's hobbies, I really don't care.
Plenty of weapons on the market.
Ban new sales of weapons.
I don't care about anyone who thinks dna kits going to all public school parents is ok.
Oh stop with the conspiracies.
Those weapons are not useful to resist the US military.
We have other tools.
They are good for mowing down children and concert goers.
That's not worth your hobby..you want to resist the government?
Get involved in politics instead of keyboard warrioring.
You're living in a fantasy world where you get to kill all your neighbors you disagree with.
And they get to shoot back.
That's what civil war is.
The glorious people rise scenario is the stuff of fantasy.
The reality is what you're seeing in Ukraine.