honestly, I hope it stays this way with the price levels.
A former secretary-general from nato mentioned in an interview recently that the reason for gas prices to drop is because of less need ( less economic growth ) in China.
If china needs more gas next year or in 2024 people in europe very likely have to deal with higher prices again.
btw i’m no expert so i don’t know if it currently is the main influence on the prices.
If only that was reality in the UK.
European average is £650 or less a year for energy bills but over £2500 for the UK and will somehow go up AGAIN in April.
This government should've gone years ago..
I despair.
It's turned into a hell hole for anyone not already ludicrously rich and it was never easy to begin with.
Poor and / or sick?
Fight for scraps at best.
No storage in the UK or very little compared to other countries.
Sold off for short term gain.
No storage means no buffer to smooth out the price spikes and shortages.
Yeah, and that’s too bad for the energy companies, but they have to take the L - their prediction models failed, so why are we paying for that?
If they bought a shitload of gas at X price, and it’s now X -60%, then they should take that hit and absorb the cost through the massive profits they’ve been scooping up for years.
How can it be that expensive?
I did a quick calculation and that's about the cost one would have if you burned diesel for a whole year at a constant 5kW/h.
Standing charge alone for gas and electric costs about £24 a month, up over 2x the previous price.
After that you have gas costing 10p / kWh and electric 33p kWh.
Those are over 3x and over 2x the price paid at the start of last year respectively.
It all adds up and as I imagine a lot of people here have discovered it makes you aware of how much different things cost to run.
For a rough idea, take a decent gaming computer.
It'll be about 400 -500W if you count monitor too so every 2 hours gaming would be 33p.
More than one child / person in the house gaming?
Double it.
Say 4 hours a day or 2kWh per day.
Only 66p.
30 x 0.66 = £19.80 a month or £237.60 a year just for a computer.
Standing charge works out around 288 a year until things increase again so that's over £500 already for a computer and to be billed by a supplier.
Now add your lights, fridge, freezer, microwave, washing machine, dryer, cooker....
Unless you sit and calculate them all and limit things it will all add up.
The biggest single thing is probably heating since a lot of places will have combi boilers.
Gas and electric to stay warm, twice the pain in money.
I'm no expert on this I just know what I've found out myself when I was trying to find out how bad things would get when our fixed rate contract was ending in July.
Overall our bills are now between 4x to 5x what they were because our fixed rates were around 3.6p for gas and 18p for electric but that standing charge is brutal too.
The worst thing is the idiotic government sold off our storage for short term gain.
No storage means no buffer when prices are squeezed with shortages.
Somehow prices are expected to rise again in April.
I hope they do so the country is shaken out of the apathy to the point that this lot of self-serving clowns are removed forcibly from power.
I can hardly wait for the annual "hunt the poor" they'll start or their new game show, "grass your neighbour" where people are set against each other for prizes like a doctor's appointment.