This war makes me so sad.
What a senseless waste of life.
The damage done to families and homes is needless.
Russia ought to be ashamed of themselves for this needless waste of life, health and happiness.
Putin has made sure Russia has a massive victim complex.
The population is miserable because of the West, not the absolute corruption of Government and industry.
He has been “democratically” elected for the last 22 years, come on Russia, do what you do best, throw off your shackles, fuck the angry dwarf off, replace him with another psycho, continue to exist in the 20th Century.
You can do it.
Russia should be a very prosperous nation.
It's got everything really, land, location, massive resources, the opportunity to be a massive bridge network between East and West.
But everything they've touched has turned to shit, effortlessly so.
In the late 1950s, Japanese cars were widely ridiculed.
30 years later, a Lexus was a dream machine.
In the late 1980s, Russian cars were widely ridiculed.
30 years later, Russian cars are widely ridiculed.
Russia hadn't been flattened by bombing or lost huge numbers of citizens to war.
Plus they had (and have) huge petroleum reserves, so (properly managed) they wouldn't need bailing out by other countries.
When Putin rose to power, lots of people in the West saw him as a technocrat, the kind of person who could engineer a Japanese-style rise from the ashes of defeat to a peaceful economic superpower.
And if he'd bothered to learn the lessons of how Japan did that, he could have engineered that.
Instead, he decided that his ideal model for how to govern would be the USSR, and never was smart enough to realize that the USSR failed, and doing the same thing over again was just going to lead to another failure.
It could have been done, if anyone in power had cared to do it and tried to learn the lessons of other countries.
I have a coworker who moved here from a country in the Middle East, and he said last week that Russia sounded like his government back in his old country: "The problems you face aren't because we're incompetent and corrupt and couldn't care less about your suffering, the problems you face are all because of Israel NATO!
".
You say this to put me on the defensive and as if I supported that war and president.
You say that like I didn't protest while that war was ongoing.
You say that like the death toll in that war was comparable to this one.
You say that like the goal was to conquer Iraq.
Your rhetoric in the last sentence is full of assumption, and comparing two wars that while I acknowledge that both are/were unjust, they are not at all the same scenario.
Furthermore, if Russia conquers Ukraine, they will not stop there.
provides plenty of reading on that subject.