I think what they mean is that as the sector develops we'll be important from a research and manufacturing standpoint which EU could invest in.
Mitsubishi were planning on building a terminal in Hastings to transport Hydrogen to Japan a few years ago.
That’s an even dumber proposal than hydrogen!
To create a fleet of thousands of the largest ships the world has ever seen in order to be capable of transporting gargantuan, obscene, god-weeping, skyscraper-sized batteries - which we currently do not have the technology to make - that are capable of supplying an entire continent with thousands of enormous cities with electricity would cost tens of trillions of dollars.
And yes, you’d need many thousands of ships, as it takes some 32-40 days to make an ocean voyage from Australia to Europe, and likely longer considering that the enormous, over-burdened ships would be too large and have too deep a draft to fit through the Suez Canal, and would thus have to go around the Cape of Good Hope, thus to provide a constant stream of electricity they’d need a continuous conga line of thousands of ships.
But, we literally do not have the technology to make batteries that massive, and batteries still cannot come close to matching hydrocarbons in terms of energy density for the transportation of energy.
Extremely dangerous to transport in massive quantities, requires cryogenic handling equipment on both sides, specialized massive-scale electrolysis facilities and power plants.
It’s not practical for the near future.
This deal is intended as a short-term stopgap to get Europe off of Russian gas and sustain them until they can build alternative energy infrastructure.
Ammonia (not ammonium - ammonia is NH3, ammonium is NH4+) energy storage technology is not currently developed enough to be scaled up to where it can supply an entire continent with energy.
By the time the research and development is done, and the infrastructure on both sides for converting energy to ammonia storage and then back to energy is constructed, you might as well have built all of the solar, wind, hydro, geothermal, and nuclear power plants that Europe needs.
It is not something that can be implemented quickly or on a large enough scale to act as the temporary stopgap that this proposal is meant to be.
No, the whole point of this article is talking about a near-term solution to allow Europe to get off of Russian gas as soon as possible and to sustain them until they can make the slow, years-long (at best) transition to alternative forms of energy.
It would literally be cheaper, faster, and more practical to build a 15,000km long cable - likely 50,000 or more if the countries it’d cross through on a straight line don’t agree, thus forcing it to go around the Cape of Good Hope and around Africa to land in Spain - instead of your mind-bogglingly, unfathomably stupid plan of using batteries to transport a continent’s worth of electricity some 1/3-1/2 of the way around the planet.
Or, alternatively, build the renewable power locally in Europe.
Once can say a lot of pretty uncomplimentary things about Australia economically and environmentally but I'm not sure it's accurate to describe it as not a major producer and exporter of coal, gas and metals?
Those things are pretty big here!