In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
There are sooo many valid reasons to criticize Pence, but he broke from Trump when he certified the election.
Pence went pretty quiet after that, and who can blame him when US citizens - from his own party - literally chanted “Hang Mike Pence”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I will give Pence this - He did not leave on January 6th, and he performed his duties to certify the election.
For that, I respect him.
Pence is a coward that only started to speak against Trump when other sycophants changed their tunes as well.
He'd still be keeping his head down if Trump was still the undisputed face of the GOP.
Pence is a terrifying person to have in power, and he is a coward in many ways - but, I’m still thankful for his actions on Jan. 6th.
Oh, I respect him for January 6th too.
Defying Trump to certify 2020 was commendable, but he still waited to speak his mind until others were doing the same.
All your points are very valid though.
But he held Trump’s hand and walked him right up to that day and never pushed back.
His sycophantic spinelessness is part of what made Trump’s attempted coup possible in the first place.
While I agree it is respectable that he did his duty, it’s sad that we have to give special praise to someone just because they did what they were constitutionally and legally bound to do.
Like I said - there are many valid reasons to criticize Pence.
Just like there are plenty of reasons to criticize McCain - but, I still somewhat respect him for his ACA vote.
And there’s plenty of reason to criticize Liz Cheney, but I respect her for actions in calling out her own party….
And I think we need to consider that there really isn’t much that keeps anyone bound to the constitution - or any set of laws - just look at the Supreme Court!
So, at least Pence showed some respect towards some of these concepts we are supposed to agree on…he really didn’t have to.
But, Pence, for all of his many faults, apparently does at least believe in something other than power.
I hear you and honestly we can all be thankful our elected leaders rallied to do their jobs that day, despite the limp wristed attempts by people like Cruz to delay the process.
He remained on campus and certified the election on January 6th, despite being in a city surrounded by people who planted bombs, stashed firearms, beat police officers, chanted for their heads, stormed the Capitol, and wanted him dead.
That spoke loud and clear to me.
It was literally his own party after him.
I really don’t blame him for remaining quiet.
Can you imagine the fear and trauma he and other experienced that day?
And he stayed quiet to protect his family.
Don’t get me wrong - Pence is terrifying and shouldn’t hold positions of power over others, but he did the right thing that day, and I think he deserves credit for that.