In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Then charge him, go to trial, and let his level of cooperation or obstruction determine his sentencing.
Why should prosecutors be given free reign to use the law in order to intimidate, manipulate, and coerce people for their own agenda, even one I might agree with?
Either the law and evidence calls for Wiselberg to be indicted or it doesn’t.
Who cares if he could flip on Trump?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Not a witness, a fall guy for the boss, a criminal, still not a witness.
He participated in systematic insurance fraud and I suspect he will be charged with felonies for that in time, the wheels move slowly but they will in time crush Trump and those surrounding him.
October 23 the James trial begins and to quote the judge it will start October 23 come "hell or high water", yes that's the judge saying that.
I hate how prosecutors use the threat of indictments to get witnesses to cooperate, either they committed a crime by breaking the law or they did not.
Leniency for cooperation should ONLY be available during sentencing, not for indictments.
One of the best recent example of this is Jeffrey Epstein’s NPA.
Another example is the prosecution of Cohen while Trump walks free.
The entire Trump Organization is just one big racketeering con, so charge the people who committed provable crimes and bring the hammer down on uncooperative witnesses while being lenient toward those who cooperated.
and there I was, sitting there, very innocently by the way, had your Beautiful First Lady, you all know who I'm talking about, and all of a sudden I see my people, they're coming up to me, "Sir, Sir," I said what is it, "it's the Radical Left, Sir, they're trying to get Allen to flip," and we don't like Flippers do we folks, and I know a lot about it, I've been watching it happen for a long time, you have people who are maybe good people and then some things happen, we're talking bad things, and then they're maybe not so good, and then there are what you would call some problems, and we never have problems under Trump, but then you look at what's going on, Sleepy Joe stealing your Taxes and using it for Late Term Abortions, it's horrible what they're doing.
we used to be over 100% under Trump but now, now we're Dead In The Water, ok, you can thank me whenever you feel like it, have a nice time, don't forget, you wouldn't have a Constitution without me.
Non-American historians will look back on the political era that stretches from Nixon until now as the time when prosecutors (and the legal profession as a whole) gleefully and profitably abdicated their responsibility to uphold the law in favor of enriching the kleptocratic class.
Prosecutorial discretion shouldn’t include ignoring provable crimes, no matter the overarching benefit.
The law ought to be followed by everyone, all of the time, equally, or else society, especially risk-seeking sociopaths, will rightfully treat the law as optional.
And would you look at that, the man who held the highest office in the land continues to have utter contempt for the law, precisely because the people responsible for upholding the law in America are either feckless or contemptible.