☹️ Even when Ukraine wins all of this, the war will stay with them for years.
Injuries, lost loved ones, and nightmares.
Look at Germany.
At one point they brought much ruin and death to Europe (and their Axis alliance spread that to Africa and Asia).
Germany was in deep with insane mysticism and supremacist ideology.
Propaganda, iron-fisted rule by a madman.
Calculated genocide of a terrible scale.
You cant compare Germany losing WW2 to whatever loss happens to end this war for Russia.
The only reason Germany was rebuilt was because it was totally conquered by ally forces.
Germans had no choice but to follow the rebuilding and reparation plan outlined by the victors.
Russia will not be invaded and conquered so they won't be forced to do anything.
the only way Ukraine gets anything out of it in repayment is with seized Russian assets, and if the Federation falls apart, some factions or statelets may agree to pay, but the Russian Federation as a whole would rather destroy the world than stain their pride.
Reparations and accountability is possible with Russia if the leadership was changed and the culture was rehabilitated.
There's a Finnish intelligence officer lecture on YouTube explaining why this is unlikely to happen.
It has to do with their long history and collective trauma.
Can't find it on mobile right now but it's worth looking into if you're interested.
TL;DW is they've been invaded so many times that they prefer a "strong man" system than getting invaded or having chaotic/troubling times.
It's their social contact and they're willing to believe in that truth.
Of course they have limits but it would have to get really bad to be even an option.
Even if some of the circumstances are similar, Germany is just different from Russia.
Russia has 1,200 years of nihilism, absolute authoritarianism, and nationalism.
And thier leaders seem to be imperialist no matter what government type they are.
Although, the Taiwan-China situation shows that even if you have thousands of years of authoritarian history, you can move beyond that and choose something better.
Taiwan is Chinese democracy made flesh, which is one of a number of reasons why China does not like Taiwan.