In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This proves how loooong way America has to go, because no matter what people say, it's still incredibly systematically misogynistic country.
This is fucking terrifying.
If they were pretending to be a surgeon they would be thrown in prison but because they are only lying about women being pregnant it’s ok?
This makes it convenient for me to rant about this overlooked insanity.
Most liberals probably notice that, but people rarely think it through how utterly insane, inhumane, idiocratic idea it is that men get to legislate about women's bodies, when they know absolutely nothing about how their bodies work.
The goal of anti-abortion "pregnancy centers" isn't to help women.
It's to prevent them from having abortions.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There are state legislators who think that Plan B is abortifacient.
That there's something called "legitimate rape".
That uterus is connected to GI system.
That abortion isn't called abortion when it's medically necessary.
That fetus floats.
How women pee with a tampon in.
That 10 year old rape victims can buy plan B...
List goes on and on.
How come people overlook this?!
Imagine if some woman wanted to force men to register as sex offenders for having erection in public, because she's unaware that men have no control over erection.
She'd be laughed out of the room, humiliated.
But when a man can make grossly uninformed laws about women's bodies, it's somehow seen as nothing-burger.
Between that, and the fact that anti-abortion "pregnancy centers" have been demonstrably lying to women for decades, I'm left to assume that this demonstrated cowardice is intentional.