Honestly as a swede i am not entirely sure i even want us to join NATO anymore like i did a year ago.
I wanted us to join to preserve our sovereignty and democracy, not to surrender it.
The way i'm feeling right now is that we are just surrendering it to Erdogan instead of maybe Putin in the future.
Sweden shouldn't be in the business of trading overlords, i love my country and this is not dignified of us.
There is even conspiracy going on in Turkey that he planted the bomb in Istanbul himself to have a reason to attack Syria again.
Turkey joined NATO during the first ever NATO expansion in year 1952 and has played an important role ever since.
Why would it not be?
Because it had a conflict of interest with the US in Syria for like 6 years?
I find it disgusting that we are part of a military alliance that hands over dissidents to torterous, human rights violating regimes, where members are right now bombing civilians in syria, and stealing their oil.
Sure, i get that we need to do our part against terrorism and since NATO is a defensive alliance where every country needs to agree to defend one another i understand that Turkey might have some legit security concerns that deserves addressing before they ratify our entry.
But the thing is i dont trust Erdogan and his regime to be the one that decides what is and is not a security concern.
This is because of their track record of democratic backsliding and authoritarian tendencies.
We all know what kind of treatment critics and dissidents get.
I wouldn't have this problem with most other countries in NATO.
In this instance however, if this guy really was a member of a terrorist organisation i completely agree that we should extradite him.
But hey, i am all for us contributing to NATO if we join it, we should up our military spending anyway and it was a naive and stupid mistake of our politicians to lower spending and start disarmament awhile back, most Swedes agrees with this.
Hell i might even agree to US military bases on Gotland, not sure about that one yet though.
If he is a member of a terrorist organisation then it's not imprisonment for political reasons now is it?
As long as we are extraditing legit and active members of terrorist organisations then i as a swede don't see the issues with this.
My issues are that i don't trust Erdogan to decide who is and is not a member of a terrorist organisation.
It's well known what he does to critics of his regime.
Why would he be tortured?
His sentence isn't even that long.
Torture would guarantee him rejoining PKK once he's out.
Don't get me wrong, torture etc did happen especially in the 90s, but it's very rare nowadays.
The policy is reintegration into the society for the members that surrendered.
Since he didn't willingly surrender he will still get full sentence but 6 years isn't too bad.
He probably didn't participate in the conflict as a fighter.