In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Democrats are gaining with young voters (the future), educated voters (the future) while GOP gains with uneducated, whites who support white supremacy.
Anecdotally, I'm uneducated but vote typically vote Democratic, uneducated doesn't always mean dumb, I'm just poor and don't want to have a loan hanging over my head forever.
Actually i would say i vote on what i believe is in the best interest of society as a whole my own interest are secondary to that.
Individualism type thinking in my opinion often does more harm then good.
Critical thinking skills is key in my opinion i am not educated made it to tenth grade dropped out went back and got my GED in my 30s.
Despite lack of education i was always a avid reader and that led me to Carl Sagan and other authors that really got me questioning and learning critical thinking skills.Having and using critical thinking skills is far more beneficial in life compared to anything i learned in school.
College education is the single biggest determinant of high income in US, with Democrats gaining among the young and the educated at all ages, the wealth is increasingly on the Democrats side.
Suffice that both sides are equally funded.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It is that more education provides not only more facts to work with but as importantly, how to look up and analyze information.
Getting younger voters and the increasingly large (38% now) college educated demographic on top of women and minorities gives the Democrats (and science and fact based policies) a better future.
More a war against science, facts and democracy by a GOP that requires people to believe in a bizarre ideology based on Christianity and white supremacy.
At grade school level you use an example, the Pilgrims story, fleeing religious persecution in Europe usually leaves out interactions with Native Americans other than the Thanksgiving story.
Indeed but the Pilgrims main history with Native Americans is the Thanksgiving story which paints the Native Ameircans in a good light with Massoit and Wampanoag saving the Pilgrims.
Kids in grade school would still have to learn to research the story, find the books in the library, deal with different versions, the real education.
Learn how to learn.