The weirdest part is they all met online.
Like how do EIGHT murderous 13-16 old girls from the same city find eachother online and decide to stab some random homeless guy to death?
That's one of the scariest things about the internet to me, the fact that any niche of crazy person can find other people with that hyper-specific psychological fixation and potentially collaborate with them to do real life harm.
That's all I think about when I see subs like BanPitBulls and the like.
I would also imagine only 1-2 of the girls are probably actual murderous psychopaths in a vacuum.
The others are probably dumb, impressionable, and have enough mental health issues to participate in the act based upon the pressure/guidance of the leader(s) but that's completely speculation without more information.
The power of analytics , machine learning, and social media.
If you need to find neo nazi flat earthers who are okay with your homosexuality, given enough time, google, facebook, etc.
will probably connect you with that community.
Modern algorithms and deep learning are amazing.
I've been homeless, so I've got biases informed by experience.
As a result I tend to recoil a bit when people are so quick to excuse away homelessness as the result of mental illness and substance abuse.
As if that makes the plight of homelessness as "justified".
A real answer (one of many): People in general, view the homeless with contempt.
Homeless folks are the easiest target in society, and everyone needs a place to deal with their frustrations.
Most get their vent fix by blaming the homeless for their own problems, and projecting their fears onto the homeless.
In most cities in the US, the homeless are bulldozed out of the way because people can't bear the signs of others struggling.
Given these circumstances it's not all that shocking that these young girls are quick to dehumanize a homeless person.
Just about the only person more vulnerable than they are.
"To be fair" with the way the economy is going a lot more folks are winding up homeless through no fault of their own.
Statistically speaking, yes, mental illness and addiction are more prevalent in homeless populations.
Though its a bit chicken and egg.
I dare you to try to maintain your sanity and sobriety living on the streets with no foreseeable relief.
It's not easy, I know from firsthand experience.
It's estimated that something like 30% of people on the streets are mentally ill. Those people need , not only housing, but mental Healthcare.
For that matter what about the other 70%?
It's too easy to write off people with excuses like "drugs" and mental health.
Oh thays what you were trying to say?
You used totally different words, maybe that's why I didn't understand that you had a bad experience with a homeless person once.
Dugs and mental illness!
Makes total sense.
Did you realize that you shifted your goalposts here or are you just reacting defensively for broadbrusbing homeless people?
Yep, it was reactionary defensiveness.
For any onlookers, when the attacks get personal and direct, you've struck a nerve.
People in reactive places dont reason, they react.