The support for Putin's Russia in Germany comes mainly from three groups: Russian immigrants, Far-right idiots and a few far-left idiots who have not quite caught on that Russia is no longer communist and NATO are the good guys this time.
At those "peace marches" you will find many of the same people who demonstrated against mask, vaccinations, asylum seekers, the EU and Euro.
I am not saying they are all Nazis, but they are comfortable with walking with at least some obvious Nazis in their midst, which in practice works out the same.
I am also not saying that they are all Russians or Russian funded, but you will hear people speaking in Russian or with Russian accents and quite a lot of the far-right organizations in Europe have received money from Russian connected sources.
I am also not saying that all the left wing politicians and activist who support Putin are paid of by Putin, some may very well just be willfully stupid.
I am saying they all those who speak out in Putin's favor are some combination of evil and ignorant.
Its a lot of people age 50+ who seem to have forgotten how bad they felt living in the former DDR (east german region formerly controled by russia) which tend to support Russia/Putin in this conflict and who refuse to believe in most of the atrocities the russian army has committed in ukraine.
I still can't wrap my head around it ... back then (regarding the DDR) they hated living under these very opressive conditions (implemented by the russian Government), now they look back at it like it was a little lovely paradise (just like the old babushkas look back at the UDSSR) ... sure, living in the constant fear of beeing snitched on by your friends/neighboars ect.
for critisizing your goverment (which was kind of common) and beeing jailed/tortured/dissapeared as a result of it, seems like a happy place to be.
Oh and the same people (for some reason) also are super susceptible to Fake News, Russian Propaganda and Conspiracy Sh\t ... not only regarding the war in ukraine.