In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
They adopted their 2016 platform for 2020 so it basically boiled down to "The last president sucked and we'll do whatever Trump wants."
Hard to say if they'll stick with that message.
Of course they are.
Republicans have no platform other then their power, their ego, their pocketbook, and revenge/.oppression of others\.
It's who they and their base are so I expect nothing less.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Watch their first attempt at a bill.
I think they are going to be just like 2014 congress where they shove a bunch of extremists together to get numbers and can't get it together to do anything.
That year the GOP took congress and first thing attempted to pass an anti abortion bill.
It failed immediately and they got nothing done.
This year the GOP is fracturing.
Trump is the de facto lead, but has no ability or interest outside of personal grifting.
If they stick their necks out for him for 2 years, they likely won't get rewarded.
If they align with any of the dozen other contenders, Trump will target them.
I would not at all be surprised if sometimes we get divisions so deep that some will break away and work with the Democrats to the point where basic governing can happen.
Some of that chaos is playing out with MTG and Boebert aiming their hate artillery at each other with the same vitriol that used to be used for communists, Muslims, and Democrats.
This time they have to really unite to cause chaos.
They can't get a house leader elected because the extremists or moderate would hold too much sway.
That is far more fractured than when Boehner was put out to pasture for not being able to muster an antiabortion bill.
They never wanted to replace it, just repeal the ACA and then kick the can down the road for decades while American voters die or go broke from simple medical issues.
The ACA opponents conveniently forget about the ridiculous insurance price increases and coverage cutting that paved the way fore the ACA to be passed in the first place.
I'm sure they've heard the theories, they just don't have the votes after their flaccid "red wave" rolled in.
There are enough GQP reps from purple and Biden-won states that would doom their future careers if they did.