I'm assuming it doesn't matter too much if your legs don't work in zero g, that said I didn't read the article and this guys disability may be that he has a short attention span for all I know.
The article is only a few sentences, but it makes it clear that this guy has only been selected for training as part of a study on the feasibility of physically disabled (although he is a Paralympian) people entering the space program.
In other words; "THIS IS ONLY A TEST.
".
A long while ago, I was discussing this very thing with others on reddit.
We came to the conclusion that although there was absolutely no perceived limitations for the (say) leg-less astronaut within the spacecraft, it was the possible scenario of escaping a crashed craft in gravity (and the need to be able to help others to do so) that was a large potential drawback compared to a fully-limbed individual.
Also there was the extremely problematic (although a little bit funny in a black humor/ironic way) issue of spacewalking.
This was agreed as a much smaller issue, since not all people who go to space need to be able to perform a spacewalk for a given mission.
Uh I would it say it depends on some factors like if there is a tiger chasing me.
Honestly it was a joke I in no way begrudge the guy his job.
I am sure there is a lot of training he has that I do not just as I am sure that he was tested and found to measure up.
Aside from that in space your near weightless.
Even further aside from that if we as a race make it as a space faring people we will need to have experience dealing with the challenges he will face.
Long voyages may result in people injured and knowing how to help the people who may become paraplegic on a long voyage will be priceless.
Also unless I'm mistaken isn't the 100 meter dash record something like 10 seconds?
Anyway I'm rambling sorry if I ruffled any feathers it was sarcasm.
Also if the joke is that half of the paraplegic would outrun me what on earth makes you think I'd stand a chance against Olympic level athletes?