In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Do you have a link showing the DOJ investigation is underway from anything related to the Jan 6 committee to confirm your assertion?
That can happen without the DOJ being involved, right?
If we agree on that, then the implication would be that Patel will say something incriminating forcing an investigation or indictment.
There appears to be a massive amount of evidence publically available and the Jan 6th committee has already heard testimony to charge Trump.
Why would it be different with Patel?
Perhaps you have a different line of thinking than what I've laid out.
It’s easy to be jaded.
I am going to go against everyone in this thread and say this: Trump will be indicted.
Finding an impartial jury is a different matter.
The DOJ isn’t just spinning their wheels, they’re building their case.
No.
That is an investigation that has been stopped after a few days into reviewing the documentation.
There is no indication the DOJ is taking any action to charge or investigate anyone at this time as far as I know.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
That is correct.
The investigation has barely started and is on hold.
There are 2 paths involved as I understand it.
The harm to national security is being evaluated.
Also, there is a criminal component, but the evidence is so overwhelming that it seems clear they are choosing not to charge Trump.
“If Trump were anyone else, he would have already faced a likely indictment,” said lawyer Bradley Moss, who represents intel agency workers in cases involving classified information.
](.
I think it’s a relatively minor case, and I don’t think you bring a minor case against a former president,” that person said.
".
"Not everyone believes that a prosecution of Trump is warranted, based on the known facts.
One former U.S. attorney, a Trump critic, said a mere documents mishandling case is not serious enough to merit charging a former president, unless prosecutors can prove aggravating factors such as intent to share the material, or obstruction of justice.