Who could’ve guess that building military bases in international water, over fishing in other nations waters, and constantly asserting racial superiority would cause distrust amongst your neighbors?
What about this is imperialism?
Can you explain to me what power the US is leveraging against the Phillipines to force them to give the US base access on their sovereign ground?
This seems like a transactional arrangement where the Phillipines gets military assistance in the region with their consent and stimulus to local and national economies as military personal spend money in the region.
Also they are hedging their bets when China and its illegal fishing trawler fleet has violated its internationally recognized EEZ.
Fucking tankies man never even do basic research onto these subjects.
Wolf-Warrior philosophy forgets that wolves hunt in packs and the lone wolf cannot survive without the pack.
Go ask the Okinawans how they feel about the "protection" of U.S. military bases.
In fact, just ask the Filipinos about their history of being raped and abused by the U.S. military.
You want me to explain how the U.S. surrounding China with military bases and allocating hundred of billions of dollars into weaponizing the Pacific is imperialism?
Sorry, I don't think I have the patience for that.
Are you Filipino?
Because if you were, you'd know that only a vocal minority here are vehemently against US military intervention.
More people are actually against Chinese aggression.
Why, you may ask?
It's because China has been increasingly belligerent in our disputed territories, and time and time again the US has kept reaffirming its commitment to honor our Mutual Defense Treaty and bolstering our military capabilities.
Who do you think would the Filipinos trust more?
The fact of the matter is, countries like ours who lack military strenh or political leverage can't exactly be picky of our allies.
Our violent past needs acknowledgement, yes, but not at the cost of national security.
If history is a more important bearing on foreign relations than practicality, then Germany and Italy would have never been in the EU and NATO, and the Philippines would have never considered to turn to Japan as a security partner.
Calling the U.S. imperialist is a "tired old script" and the U.S. building yet another foreign military base to contain their enemies is proof of Chinese imperialism.
This is a post about the U.S. building military bases in the Pacific and you've managed to turn it into a debate about how ackshually China is imperialist.
Now you're getting on me for "whataboutism"?
Good lord.
Wow, and those were all in the last 40 years, you say?
Idk if you know this, but Hong Kong hasn't always been a British colony... and Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia have been part of China for longer than the CCP has even been in power lol.
To be fair, Taiwanese autonomy is also in our best interest.
A PRC controlled Taiwan will be a staging ground for encroachment of our northern territories and those of Japan and South Korea.
If the Yanks can take care of that for us, I'd say Aye.