The problem is they only cares for themselves, the rest get ignored at best or gaslighted to submission at worst, why even people who do not have these issues have to pay the bill with their taxes?
We can't topple corporate greed all at once.
It doesn't matter that this particular thing only benefits women.
Workers everywhere need to unite and chip away at all the injustices that are caused by corporate greed.
Taxes should be spent on things like protecting worker's rights, infrastructure, health care, and education.
If you are worried about where your tax dollar goes, maybe you should be more worried about how much goes to the military or to support police officers who abuse their power.
Tax dollars?
Do you think I'm a US citizen?
Wrong I'm from Dominican Republic, Latin America, you want more taxes and more power for the government, we want less because we know our governments are corrupt as hell, they don't want you to succeed until they say so, Socialism in Latin America is Cronism with extra steps.
Most of you (I assume) are American, and have no idea of typical work culture here in Spain.
It’s unlikely to cause any changes in hiring women.
Wage gap between sexes will likely increase.
I imagine if you are looking for a full time employee the fact that such leave would financed by government does mitigate the problem that you have one less person working, in semi-random intervals.
Among other laws passed today, were one which allows girls as young as 16 to get abortions (largely provided for free) without parental consent, another which allows menstrual products like tampons and pads to be free in schools and any public health centre (effectively making them free for any woman if she wants), ditto for birth control, allows sixteen-year-olds to legally change their gender, strenhens the need for overt permission to have sex (in other words, only yes means yes) and a few odds and ends.
It’s progressive eve by progressive European standards, and combined with things such as largely free university education, 4+ weeks of paid vacation for starting workers, healthcare so generous they’ll send a free ambulance for you if you have an illness and don’t think you can get there on your own and house calls, nearly free public transportation (€4 for ten rides and transfers; about 41¢ in dollars) and a zillion other things.
Wake up sheeple.