In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The thing that scares me is that I believe there are enough low information swing voters out there who don’t understand how fascist and authoritarian Ron DeSantis is (more than Trump even), but who would likely vote for him over Biden based on age alone.
I think they're concerened that it will backfire and cause conservatives to rally around him.
Nothing motivates conservatives more than being contrarians to an imagined MSM liberal agenda.
Not only that, my other concern are voters that would look at such a bold, albeit truthful campaign and turn on Democrats because that's "too divisive" or it turns them off because of insert excuse here.
Such a statement will definitely get Republicans to turn out because they'll see it as an attack on them.
Even though I'd say the true fascists of the GOP are the ones in office or positions of power (the Matt Schlapps, Josh Hawleys, MTG, Sarah Sanders, McCarthys, etc.
), whereas the voters, in some cases, are just people with layers upon layers of wool over their eyes and ears that don't see what they're actually supporting is wrong.
RAcists and other awful groups definitely vote GOP, but I hold out hope that some of those people don't realize what they support.
The problem is that any legitimate contenders of a party would almost always defer to the sitting president if he were running for reelection, rather than making a nasty primary that the president would win anyway and come away from weaker.
Shoulds are great in theory, but when i say weaken, I don’t necessarily mean “revealed to be a weaker candidate” so much as I mean “not viewed as favorably by the electorate” than if there were no other legitimate challengers.
It could be as classy as it comes and the incumbent president would come out polling worse for the wear.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Same here.
I see so many comments dismissing DeSantis here on Reddit and I’m like, umm, guys?
This is the single biggest threat to democracy and our rights anywhere, even more than Trump.
If the result is going to be the same either way (the incumbent President getting the nomination), why would we want to risk hurting our numbers when the real world alternative are actual fascists?
While it is entirely possible that a younger more exciting candidate may have a better chance to win than incumbent Biden, there are far from any guarantees that that will be the case, and I’d actually wager that it’s less likely than not.
In practice, it’s more like, if you have a legit shot at the nomination in 2028, but are choosing to primary a popular (within his own party) incumbent president in 2024, you have almost no chance to win unless you pull some real dirty tricks.
It’s too difficult and too expensive and too exhausting to run an open primary campaign let alone one against an incumbent president when you could just defer and run in 2028.
If they did run in 2024 they’d have to be drastic.
That wasn’t my point.
My point is you could have a perfect primary with lots of good, decent alternatives with everyone conducting themselves as professionally and cleanly as possible, but the result would still be the incumbent president coming out on top with worse polling numbers in the general than if they didn’t have legitimate challengers.