In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Democrats haven't had a 2/3 majority in the house or senate for years and that is what it takes to propose an amendment that is forwarded onto the states where it takes 3/4 of the state legislatures to approve.
"An amendment may be proposed by a two-thirds vote of both Houses of Congress, or, if two-thirds of the States request one, by a convention called for that purpose.
The amendment must then be ratified by three-fourths of the State legislatures, or three-fourths of conventions called in each State for ratification.
".
Yassss Congressman Schiff!
You are a cornerstone for this country - and your place in US history will be remembered as such.
A modern father-like figure to America.
If one side has people—especially people high up in the party—pushing for something, while the other side has no one, it isn’t a both sides issue.
It is very clearly one side is fighting for it and one side is not.
Maybe the first side doesn’t have enough people on it yet, but these things take time.
Think Medicare for all or even climate change.
It took Democrats fighting for a long time before those things happened.
This is the same idea.
Who is fighting for that world?
Democrats.
Not every Democrat, but a lot of them.
Not one single Republican is fighting for that world.
Democrats are trying to make those changes.
When you roll your eyes and act like everyone in office is the same when one group is actually trying, you’re absolutely both-sides-ing the issue.
Because their comment ISNT true.
Schiff has proposed this every year, including when Democrats had control.
He’s not doing it now to make it look like Democrats care when they actually don’t (which this person implied).
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Huge bills like this take time.
Compare it to Medicare for all, or action against climate change.
It takes a long time for a small group of lawmakers to bring attention to an issue and build public support (which then turns into more support from their colleagues) before major changes can be made.
The person they were replying too was talking about schiff (“You’re going to introduce this now?
?”) so yes this conversation IS about Schiff.
Idk why you’re obsessing over Venn diagrams.
Sure if you make a venn diagram of who does NOT support the bill there is overlap but if you cannot make a Venn diagram about who does support it because zero republicans support it.
There is no overlap in a Venn diagram for supporting removal of citizens United.
So when it comes to overturning Citizens United, it both sides issue.
Only one side is fighting for it.
I never said we shouldn’t hold Democrats’ feet to the fire.
I never said we shouldn’t try to get this passed.
I said it’s foolish for the person I was replying to to make this seems like a both sides issue when it ISN’T.
One side is actively fighting for change and one side is not.
Dismissing this as “dems are just doing this to make repubs look bad” is 1) inaccurate because Schiff has done this every year and 2) detrimental to the cause because it makes both sides looks equally bad and in turn increases voter apathy.
Then you came in apparently not reading very closely (yes we are talking about Adam Schiff) and trying to convince me that since some Democrats are against it it is a both sides issue.
It isn’t.
Saying both sides are the same here because not every Democrat supports it is like saying both sides were the same on January 6th just because not every Republican supported the mob.
One side is better than the other and we should vocally support that side.
When corporate dems see how popular this is they’ll feel pressure to change their votes.