In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Gonna be kinda hard to convince a jury you didn't intend for there to be an insurrection to prevent the transfer of power or weren't asking the GA secretary of State to do something illegal, when your own internal research said there's no there there...
(we don't of whom though, but it's hard to see them recommending some underling getting indicted but not the ring leader.. but i guess we'll know soon enough).
I can't believe he's still a free man.
I guaran fukn tee that if it were you or i, we'd be in prison right now...un fukn believable that he's still walking around stuffing his fat face with hamberders and covfefe... especially given now that we've learned that the grand jury in Atlanta recommended indictments.
I know it's irritating how long it's taking but we went from arresting Trump quite possibly triggering a civil war to the point where at least half of Republicans are hoping for an indictment and that grows by the day.
wait a minute, I had many many more millions of votes than that ok, many more, but it's much much easier, just so you understand, it's a lot easier to count to 11 thousand than it is to count to 3 million ok, a lot easier, and I'm doing you all a favor, they say that I'm too nice sometimes, that's probably true, I gave you all Massive Tax Cuts because we pay too much in Taxes but then the viciously horrible Democrats, who have hurt us a lot, don't forget the Radical Left has turned us into a Third World Country, we're losing majorly under Sleepy Joe.
you have, we're talking, 121,000 Soldiers, basically all of them for Trump, I won the Military by a lot, close to 100%.
I did Veterans, I did Space Force, I did way more things than Obama ever could, I was even nice enough to give you Judges, and there have been a few who haven't treated me fairly, and that's a real shame, a real shame.
it's very disrespectful to the 45th President of the United States.
ok, you can thank me now, thank me tomorrow, it's not a problem, enjoy yourselves.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.