We are at an interesting point for the environmentalist movement.
As the scientific predictions continue to look bleaker, our governments continue to offer almost meaningless solutions.
This raises the temperature as activists are starting to feel like their actions aren’t having the desired effects and new strategies need to be considered.
For a long time environmental groups have used the “Sierra Club” strategy of raising funds for public land and other small scale projects.
The Sierra club explicitly condemned civil disobedience until recently.
I’m just using Sierra Club to represent the multitude of environmental advocacy groups.
These groups have generally taken public perception very seriously and have gotten things done but have not been up to the challenge we are currently facing.
On the other end of the spectrum we have groups like Earth Liberation Front (ELF) who for a couple decades operated as a domestic terrorist organization (according to some).
They targeted corporations and government buildings and caused significant destruction.
They had some “successes” in slowing down destruction of wildlife but alienated almost everybody including more moderate environmentalists.
Extinction rebellion seems like they tried to split the difference and ended up with the worst of both worlds.
Accomplishing next to nothing and alienating almost everyone along the way.
I think the protesting of private planes could be effective.
You need to target the right people.
I think that video of that guy begging to get to his parole meeting demonstrates exactly why you can't take a stressed overworked working class and disrupt their needs.
A bunch of environmentalist fucking up someone's commute to pick up their kids from school, or throwing paint at a paint of art has never convinced anyone to care about the environment more.
It has in fact done the exact opposite.
Protesting isn't a magic spell that you cast and then you get what you want.
If you can't describe the process by which your protest leads to sympathy for the cause, you are just doing an obnoxious secular prayer circle.
It's no different than a bunch of religious nuts stopping a highway to pray that everyone finds Jesus.
People felt sympathy for civil rights marchers because they saw innocent and normal people getting beaten for just asking for basic rights everyone else has.
These environment protests instead look like a bunch of entitled clowns engaging in mindless destruction for attention.