In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The worst part of all this is that Fox News viewers, the people that NEED to see this information the most, are probably never going to hear about any of this.
I wish I lived in a timeline where Fox lost this lawsuit and part of the settlement had every on-air personality read and show the texts before and after every single one of their demagogy rants.
One of the funniest things in 2020 was watching conservatives implode when Fox News started reporting that Trump lost Arizona before other news stations, ultimately cementing Trump’s loss in reality.
Conservatives went from “FOX NEWS IS THE ONLY NON-FAKE NEWS!” To “OMG, FOX HAS BEEN CORRUPTED BY THE DEEP STATE” at the drop of a hat.
All by telling their audience _one_ thing they didn’t want to accept as reality.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's not even about what the crazies believe.
Many of Fox's viewers don't want to hear or see the truth if it conflicts with their worldview.
Now four year later, most conservatives are acting like they never liked Trump when they were cradling his balls in their cheeks nonstop for the previous four years.
And OAN and Newsmax do exist for that very reason, if Fox does not tell their target audience what they want to hear, there are other platforms that will.
From there, you're right.
Fox news started embracing a false narrative (much more carefully) because they were losing market share when their viewers started seeking confirmation of their beliefs rather than the truth.