The graphic on each line is a translation of the words.
It can communicate the information to someone who can read the number but not the language of the category.
If more russians spoke out and protested, then maybe all these conscripts could find the bravery to refuse to go to Ukraine.
Knowing they had the support of many many people would help them make that decision.
Furthermore, if the FSB finds out that they can't do shit about protests without themselves suffering pain and death, they're not going to be too keen on squashing protests.
The russian people know who their oppressors are, they know their families, they know where they live.
Vlad is holding on and hoping that the US Midterms put MAGA and the Donnie Rotten Trump Cult45 back in control of the $$$$$ (House and Senate control) AND then eventually in 2024 the return of the Orange Jesus to the White House.
These people have said outright they are Putin supporters and the money and equipment WILL end from a MAGA America.
This week's voting in America will go a long long way to shape the course of history worldwide for the next few decades.
Like I used to say to my kids when we approached a steep hill going up or down, "Hold on to your gotchies" The kids laughed but we won't be.
And yes, I understand it's very easy for me to say all that from the comfort and safety of my couch, but again, it's not untrue.
Yeah, and maybe those Iranian girls should have spoken earlier.
Why was nobody here bashing them for literally decades when they were living under oppression with no protests?
Or, you know, maybe you can't force people to rebel if the conditions and circumstances aren't aligned yet... Everything has its time.
Is that why they keep setting fire to recruitment stations, and why the government had to resort to conscripting criminals from prisons and literally barging into schools and unis to round up students?
You've already decided to believe in the narrative that all Russians are evil, and try to fit everything into that narrative and ignore everything that speaks against it, haven't you?