Just need new companies that aren't massive global conglomerates that are absolutely terrible at running their base products.
I don't even use Google any more as a search engine, they fail to even do that properly nowadays.
Everything is so massively driven by profits that they don't even care about their products working.
I wouldn't be surprised if the tech bubble burst next year.
Honestly, they need to lose money and fail.
Just like Meta is doing, just like Tesla, Amazon.
If you ignore your base product that made your company what it is, it's doomed to fail.
I don't see any of those mentioned going under, but I do see a significant amount of value exiting the market.
Google, Tesla, and Amazon were all hot-buys during the summer and now it's looking like we might see more realistic prices amongst those companies, instead of sky-high valuations for sub-par services.
Frankly speaking,human greed encompasses all needs and we have shittest of humans as our leaders around the globe.
As much as i know and have knowledge as of now there is little to no alternative to these big giants.They have made a cartel and are ruling all of us.
They'll eventually encompass too much wealth and fail, driving business away with poor decisions.
The whole reason we have inflation currently is because too much money is circulating amongst the richest and not enough circulating everywhere else, not even mentioning how the super rich don't even pay taxes equivalent of their income.
I'm expecting a complete and utter failure on every level eventually, worse than the 2008 Financial Crisis.
The makings are exactly the same, a housing bubble, money printing to extraordinary proportions, financial lending at historically low rates, essentially free credit.
The bubble will burst and we are looking at a "minor" recession that might turn out to be the worst one we've ever had.
People can't buy things if they don't have money.
We are currently succumbing to the consequences of those actions.
Wages haven't increased in decades proportionate to inflation.
This companies are hoarding wealth while posting record profits year-over-year.
We're at a point where homelessness is at its highest level, where basic necessities are becoming unavailable to 1st World country populations.
Labour shortages filled with cheap labour.
Trillionaires are going to become a thing in the next decade.
Except this time we have the super rich hoarding extreme amounts of wealth, gridlocked legislation in government, stagnant wages, and completely unmanageable inflation not ever seen before.
Including supply shortages of everything from basic necessities, to fuel/gas, and threat of imminent war that will make the Ukrainian/Russian supply shortages seem like nothing at all.