In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Based on some Excel magic from NBC's county by county breakdown and % vote remaining, Dems only need \60% of remaining Clark and Washoe counties to win, which seems pretty doable being that the remaining ballots are mail-in which skew Democrat because republicans aren't smart enough to vote by mail.
Masto is actually performing slightly better now without the outstanding ballots than in 2016 (an election year) WITH the ballots.
Maybe I’m missing something, but even if the race is close, I don’t see how Masto loses this.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Looks like this is going to be the most dramatic race in the coming days.
I would love it if the Dem's pull this one off because then the Georgia race becomes less significant.
Yet you make the same nonsensical assertion.
You’re gonna need to provide evidence for that sweeping statement.
This.
I did the math a couple hours ago and Masto’s campaign would have to suddenly implode in Clark and Washoe for her to lose.
For goodness sake, the issue of abortion is effectively on the ballot in LAS VEGAS and Reno, both of which comprise the lion’s share of remaining votes.
The question isn’t if she’ll win but by how much.
Can you cite sources for that?
I literally just pointed out to you that Latinos in Nevada are split 2:1 in FAVOR of Masto.
(And that’s in stark contrast to Latinos in Florida and North Carolina, two conservative states for example, where Latinos are voting completely differently compared to each other).