In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I then found out about Ritz Carlton, a company that didn’t qualify both in size and revenue receiving $800m due to them quickly setting up LLCs for each department in their massive hotels, claiming each department was a separate company and therefore slipping under the employee number count.
There were then hundreds of foreign shell companies that received millions each but didn’t have any employees.
I looked one up on the map and found one local Shell business received $2m.
It was across the road from me and there’s literally nothing there.
It’s an empty building behind a CVS.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
THIS.
We eventually got two rounds of PPP and it didn’t even cover 40% of our actual hard costs, yet we paid every single staff member their wages to stay at home for all the lockdowns out of our personal savings.
However, we had to wait months because the first round went in seconds despite me applying the literal moment it was available.
I was talking to a local MAGA acquaintance about my student loan debt because he was at a gathering with neighbors complaining about the forgiveness stuff.
He had a ton of predictable misconceptions about it (ie: right wing news talking points).
Fraud was rife and Trump And Kushner both received millions in PPP funding.
How is that not illegal and why aren’t conservatives asking for lynchings due to all the waste of tax payers money?
I actually logged into my nelnet account to show him what my interest rates are on my loans.
His jaw dropped when he saw it’s more than twice as much as the interest rate on his mortgage.
I told him how much I actually borrowed versus how much I owe now because of interest (spoiler: I owe more now than I owed when I graduated).
He was outraged on my behalf but had what he thinks would’ve been a brilliant solution.
He told me my husband should’ve used the very small business he has to apply for a big PPP loan which I could’ve then used to pay off the student loan debt, and then the PPP loan would’ve been forgiven later and all would be well.
As someone working on the accounting side of things one client bought a ton of crypto and another paid off a six figure back tax and both received forgiveness.
The problem with PPP is that they have it to the owners and not the employees directly.
The two examples above never closed or had to stop operations so the PPP money was just free money for the owners to do whatever with and their normal payroll costs came from the money they were never at risk of losing in their business.
It was a scam.
Yes he was serious.
100% serious.
When I laughed because I thought he was joking he said, “what?
That’s what I’d have done They never would’ve known”.
I’ve been thinking about how that would actually work.
Student loans are not able to be discharged through bankruptcy and you get yourself in deep shit if you pay for student loans with money from a different type of loan and then try to discharge THAT loan through bankruptcy.
Was the government really so lax and careless about the PPP loans that I could’ve paid off my $147,000 in student loans and then had the PPP loan forgiven with them none the wiser?
I feel like someone along the line would’ve caught onto that….
The thing is it pretty much becomes a slush fund.
What's the difference between getting $100k, spending it on payroll and getting the loan forgiveness and getting $100k, spending it on student loans and spending a different $100k on payroll and getting the loan forgiveness.
The study I saw showed that each job year saved by the PPP cost between $170,000 and $258,000.
All we did was give the owners of those businesses free money they didn't even need.
It was a scam.
You’re right.
I’m the highest tier at my high street bank (private bank management etc) but we got closed out from PPP by large companies that had managers put them in the front of the line.
That’s where all the first allocation of PPP funds went - to giant corporations that had dedicated managers to file for them.
Glossier, the billion dollar “unicorn”’ beauty company literally applied for millions in PPP and then immediately shit down nearly all of their locations and laid everyone off.
Then 18 months later, when the economy started picking up, they opened a slew of brand new fancy stores in ultra prime locations and employed less people for less money (starting wages etc).
So many large companies played the system and committed abject fraud and there’s been little penalty, if any for many.
I read about that on a random Twitter thread I came across about companies that used the PPP loans inappropriately.
I loved their boy brow product but will never buy any of their products ever again after they pulled that shit.
Same.
I looked after my employees 100% as if nothing happened to their employment despite being shut down twice for months on end.
I got no relief for 60% of my costs.