In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The whole party just seems to accept that they are now the figureheads for an entertainment industry that feeds into the worst aspects of humanity with shock jock comedy designed to incite and inflame not only the people who agree with them but also the people who disagree.
They exist as the antithesis to the designs of our founding fathers who were guided by Enlightenment principles and the scriptures that preceded them.
With Trump, an accomplished Brand, celebrity, actor, and friend of Vince McMahon, they dialed up the kayfabe to 11, really accomplishing a Lifestyle Brand of disinformation and distraction.
They are trying to break our system of governance intentionally.
I hope everybody is ready for what is likely to happen now that open GPT is online and deepfakes are getting scary convincing with some of the AI generated ones lately.
With many already trying to find ways around the guardrails, I think there is going to be a lot of interesting astroturfing (potentially quite automated and generated by hostile actors globally) in the next election cycle.
Their goal is complete domination through what they call Armageddon, which is commonly assumed to be a physical War but could also be understood as referring to the chaos of many different peoples within the same marketplace (Har Meggido) exchanging ideas and sometimes clashing because of difference of opinion.
Social media compounded by a understanding of freedom of speech that doesn't recognize the concept of Liberty as rights measured with responsibility is likely to bring out much worse in people as negative attention seeking Behavior continues to perform well and people more and more lose any sense of shared reality in Pursuit of celebrity, money, and all of the other worst vices that threaten the very fabric of our civil society.