Hi, I’m Stefaniia Bern and I started working for Reuters during the first month of the war in Ukraine, helping a foreign team out with translations and finding stories.
After six months of freelancing, during which I joined both text and video colleagues to accurately represent the human aspect of the war, I became a production assistant for the Reuters visuals team in Kyiv.
Among my tasks are editing and writing scripts, as well as producing stories in the field.
This year I interviewed many Ukrainian people who have suffered from the war in different regions.
Among my stories are Kyiv , , a family and using camping tools to .
During the first year of a full-scale war, I was fortunate to work with renowned Reuters journalists from different fields.
I enjoy producing multimedia stories and participating in teamwork aimed at the most genuine and humane stories.
In the meantime, I'm studying for my Bachelor's in psychology and trying to enjoy the remains of normal life in a capital severely impacted by the war.
Hi, I’m Jonathan S. Landay, a U.S. national security correspondent for Reuters.
I’ve written about foreign affairs and U.S. defense, intelligence, and foreign policies for more than 30 years.
In my current position, I cover intelligence and defense issues, terrorism, nuclear weapons, and arms control policies with a focus on U.S. foreign policy toward Europe, South Asia, and the Middle East.
I also reported extensively on the Trump-Russia investigation.
Compared to reporting from Iraq or Afghanistan, did you ever sense that you were targeted by Russian or separatist forces specifically because you had ‘press’ on your vehicle, as other press personnel (including colleagues of Benjamin Hall) have claimed?
My assignments have included the 1989 massacre of pro-democracy protesters in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, the wars of former Yugoslavia, the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq and extensive tours of Afghanistan, where I covered the last four years of the Soviet occupation, the 2001 U.S. invasion and traveled unilaterally and embedded with U.S. and Afghan forces.
I also spent considerable time in the Middle East, including two trips into Syria in 2014.
I spent more than three months last year covering the war in Ukraine, including extensive time on the frontlines during the Ukrainian counter-offensives in Kharkiv and Kherson.
I plan to return to Ukraine in the spring for more coverage.
Did you interview local, rural residents, and did you find that they changed from indifference to staunchly supporting Ukraine?
Both Kharkiv and Kherson were places that it seemed that—from coverage—the rural outskirts were filled with Russia-friendly, elderly people who were initially ambivalent to Russia, but then soured and supported Ukraine.
However, it may be that it was the Western coverage that change, or that such people were evacuated.
Finally, when territory has been quickly reclaimed, such as in Kherson, there’s been press mishaps, where members believed they had permission to proceed but afterwards their credentials came under review for being in an unauthorized area (Suspilne, CNN, etc in Kherson’s square, that Danish reporter interviewing the frontline farmer)—is Ukraine different in the dangers it poses?
Or is there internal issues with credentials or authorizations?
>Yes, journalists including myself have been deliberately targeted in wars I have covered, including Ukraine.
The Bosnian Serbs deliberately shot at vehicles with press signs on them.
And in Ukraine, the Russians fired a cluster bomb intended for us in the frontline village in which there was Ukrainian command post that we had just visited.
The Russians apparently saw our vehicles from a drone.
But fortunately, it took time for the drone operator to transmit our coordinates to the Organ missile crew that fired at us.
We had already gotten to the front line trenches when they fired.
We heard the explosions of the submunitions and the Ukrainians told all about this when we returned to the village.
In my long experience as a war correspondent, I have come to understand that all front lines are essentially the same nasty, dangerous and bloody places in every war.
I’m more interested in reporting on the reasons for the war and how it impacts ordinary folk.
So, yes, I wrote many stories from front line villages focusing on how the civilians who chose to stay were living, the hardships they faced and why they chose to remain.
I did the same in cities like Mykolaiv, where there was no fresh water because the Russians had destroyed the system intake, using water as a weapon of war.
No one lost their credentials for going into Kherson without permission after the Russians withdrew, including yours truly.
Re attitudes: I would say way more than 90 percent of Ukrainians want to fight for their independence, freedom and a European orientation.
Especially young people who want to spend their vacations in Barcelona and not Sochi, There are some elderly people - mostly in the east - who yearn for the predictable days of Soviet rule, although you can only understand that my reading between the lines of their complaints about Ukrainian military operations and food shortages.
- JSL.
I think that it's the idea that the US has no interest in the war or its outcome.
History holds lessons.
More than 200,000 American service members were killed to secure Europe in WWI and WWII, and many more were injured.
Their sacrifices would be wasted should the US and other countries avert their eyes from Ukraine, many believe.
Europe is again under threat.
Many experts believe that allowing Russia to invade and seize the territory of another country would set a post-Cold War precedent that other countries would be tempted to follow, especially telegraphing to China that it is free to invade Taiwan.
- JSL.