In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Before any decisions are made, just remember that we ought not let her eternal suffering and punishments be meted out randomly, without some Arch-Demon’s planning and cruelty.
There are lots of good, married, Christian demons with their own little nook of hell or limbo who couldnt win, trick, ensnare, ensorcel, or otherwise gain eternal control of a human soul.
They would love a little racist, hateful, seditionist to torment forever!
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
“The government totally wants to provide surveillance on every part of your life.
They want to know when you’re eating.
They want to know if you’re eating a cheeseburger, which is very bad because Bill Gates wants you to eat his fake meat, which is grown in a peach tree dish.”.
At Eternal Famnation, we see disgusting skinwalkers like Marjorie Taylor Greene as more than just anonymous grist for Hell’s eternal grindstone.
We see the dignity these awful sin bags deserve while suffering for ever and ever in damnation, and help them find a “forever Hell” of their own.
There are countless well-to-do Hell Lords and Ladies who couldn’t win, trick, ensorcel, or otherwise gain eternal control a human soul of their own.
Eternal Famnation takes a bespoke approach to earned suffering, and uses dangerous blood magicks and a little forbidden chronomancy to truly get to know all of the dirty deeds of our newly Damned!
EF researchers comb through all of the little sinners deeds and finds most terrible and ironic punishments possible for our newly Damned.
We then find the perfect Infernal Match to ensure maximum suffering and punishment for the newly Damned.
And our new Adoptive Demons get their fill of fresh blood, anguish, suffering, fear, and lamentation!
The man literally hasn't even finished screaming about Trailer Queen lying to his followers, when he pauses to express his relief at not having to lie to his followers anymore.
He will be pro-adultery in 1/2 hr if it gets him money and status.
The consistency is the ego.
Please no, he just spent 4 years loving this woman coz murica, he's not consistent at all.
He has no beliefs.
There is no conservatism.
There is literally nothing this klaxon won't flip flop on for his selfishness.
If he woke up black tomorrow, he'd be wearing a dashiki by noon.
If he woke up female, he'd be wearing a pussy hat on the evening news.
I mean there is no "right" lol.
It's just selfishness with extra steps.
If they woke up black one day they'd be black nationalists.
It's like Cartman with the gingers.
To wit: