In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Case in point: DeSantis is getting help from people like Larry Arnn of Hillsdale College and who was on the 1776 Commission.
Basically, they want African American history to END with a romanticized and "colorblind" MLK.
Everything was fine after the passage of the Civil Rights Act!
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They crave indoctrination for students, but on their terms and with their programs.
A part of their program is getting minorities and marginalized people to STFU.
affecting segregation, voting, and housing rights.
It presented itself, and was understood by the American people, as consistent with the principles of the founding.
This makes it sound like every American was cool with Civil Rights reforms in the 60s and that the Civil Rights Movement was DONE with those (it "culminated").
This is basically 'Murica fanfic, because tons of people were not cool with it and actively opposed it.
But Ron DeSantis and Larry AARRRNNN (a surname obviously derived from the disgusted sounds people make upon meeting the malignant spawn of that particulargene pool) want you to think racism was solved in the 60s and MLK just wanted "colorblindness.
".
He won five states.
Five fucking states.
The most successful third party Presidential candidate of the latter half of the 20th century ran on racism.
"hey let's leave out the part about water fountains and incarceration discrepancies because it makes people upset, and we don't wanna upset them.
".
....
Meanwhile, these same people insist that the national mainstream dialogue be a constant conversation about having relations with children.
I love how my grandparents talk about black history- its all about how black history is designed to make white kids feel guilty for what their ancestors did.
They keep insisting that we can't possibly teach black history until we can do it without shaming white people.