Can someone explain me how is chosen the presidency of the COP?
Is it just under-the-table money like the World Cup or is there another decision process?
Under the table money, networking, apathy of the actual subject, being a top UN member who also being on the board of and has access to vetoing human rights discussions….
The president of any years COP is chosen from the host country for the conference, and is as far as the round 10 years I've looked at sitting politicians on the minister level in that host country.
It's often environmental ministers or for business, energy or technology.
But not always.
Last year it was Egypt's minister for foreign affairs.
So it seems COP presidents are not chosen as people inside the UN that has to be delegated, and who gets the job might be down to political finagelin within that host nation's cabinet of ministers and the ruling party.
Maybe it's an attractive job they compete or bargain for, or maybe it's a role ministers find themselves volunteered for based on whose role fits.
And the chosen president for 2022 COP is also Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology, and Special envoy for climate change.
What that title means within UAE I don't know, but he's had it since 2020.
Next year is not fixed yet but Australia seems to be trying to get it, and Lula has talked about Brasil wanting to host for 2025.
The host nation for COP rotates through the 5 continent/regions as long as any is willing to host it, and if there is none within their continents turn so to speak, they default to UN headquarters.
(Edit COP seems to have a base budget calculated for at home events, and anyone hosting it has to cover all extra direct and indirect costs, like transport of staff, facilities, equipment, security etc).
United Arab Emirates is hosting this year, and they hired several professional PR firms to promote them to secure the spot for the Asia and the Pacific regional turn (which does not include Australia or new Zealand, who is in western Europe with others.
Including US and Canada).
Last year was Egypt for Africa.
how tf is it possible that billions of people let a few thousand destroy the planet and keep us as slaves.
I'm really enjoying watching the exponentially accelerating end of the world happening that no one wants but that can't be stopped due to the entire world being a shit hole theocracy.
the ethical among us don't seem to be able to get into positions of influence, or maybe ethical people don't want those spots.
it's super tough, it seems all the political class can be bought for what would be considered pennies to the oil producing oligarchy (kings, tyrants, choose your label).
i certainly don't know what to do, but it would have to involve a world wide uprising that will never happen in a coordinated enough way.