In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It's pretty appalling that many of the people who fight for this loophole are the same sorts of people who attack LGBTQ communities with legislation and accusations of grooming children.
I live in Idaho and this sort of a loophole was used to protect 15 people in the LDS Church to whom a police officer admitted sexual assault of babies and toddlers.
Having been raised in a Conservative Christian homeschool family, I was told that I could trust my pastors but to be fearful of therapists and cps.
There are many others who are still being taught these lies and continuing to face physical, mental, and sexual abuse.
As a resident of Utah, and as a fellow morridor occupant I’m glad to see that many other people have been speaking up about the absolute horror of the coverups within the LDS church.
It’s very sad to see the clergy fail to uphold and/or promote the most basic, least controversial tenets of Catholic social teaching.
Some of CST I disagree with, but a lot of it is actually quite reasonable (and tbh kinda liberal).
Protecting children is a component of CST.
The sex abuse scandals are dereliction of duty on multiple levels.
Most of them probably don’t but there are enough who do that this is a systemic issue - and the ones who don’t too often cover the crimes of the criminals.
They put so much effort into not solving the issue that they could’ve solved the issue three times over by now if they’d directed their energy towards that instead.
I grew up Catholic and while I don’t want to generalize the laity, I don’t have such qualms about bashing the clerical hierarchy.
It’s my opinion that Confession is less about actual spiritual healing and more about either 1) humiliating the penitent by telling them they must confess their sins to a person in power (Confession cannot be conducted by laity) or 2) ameliorating penitent guilt in an unproductive manner.
Practicing Catholics might have different experiences than I do, but that is my assessment.
So I would guess that your hypothesis of Confession-induced guilt driving people to turn themselves in would ultimately not pan out, but perhaps I am wrong.