Well that article was very much a French intelligence press release.
Think they're pissed of Total has been frozen out while Maduro is cutting a deal with Chevron.
AKA as with shit going down with Russia and instability in the mid east (Iran) going down at the moment.
Human rights and opposing an oppressive dictatorship in Venezuela are suddenly less important than removing restrictions on the supply of Venezuelan oil.
Agreed that they have huge corruption and have completely mismanaged their economy and I wouldnt consider them a democracy but they actually have an active opposition movement, they actually have regular opposition protests, they aren't in a war of aggression against a neighbour, and they aren't openly anti-women and anti-LGBT.
This will also help Venezuelan people greatly, since it's money that will be put in circulation in our economy, along with possibly open up a lot of economic stuff that is basically blocked to us, like Zelle style apps, Visa/MasterCard cards for our banks, open access to things like Amazon (all of these things currently need workarounds like opening an U.S bank account -which is extremely hard lol-, Binance/other exchanges and 3rd parties to work).
I would definitely rather rely on Venezuelan oil until we can do a green transition than any other oil rich country (except Norway).
Also a lot more US oversight on our government (I hope) so they can be assured that the money, or the majority of it, is being put to circulation and not pocketed by Maduro and his people.
If the US has some oversight in place to make sure the money flows into the country and not into Maduro's pocket, then yes, it will help the average populace greatly.
Aside from that, Chavez made a big effort to rid the average civilian of guns (but not the indoctrinated military, nor the gangs) and anything that could be used to make actual weapons (anything further than "firework grenades" and molotov cocktails), like chemistry stores and school labs access to chemical compounds deemed "dangerous" like e.g Saltpeter.
Then the people got tired since no matter how many students/political figures were killed or unlawfully arrested (like my cousin who was arrested on his way home because they were rounding up protesters and people passing by indiscriminately, or a friend's uncle who's in Colombia fleeing political persecution just because he was an activist for his University), no one else intervened for us, the general populace.
So all in all, he just inherited a country of defenseless people where everyone fights only for themselves, and got them tired of seeing all their efforts wasted for nothing.
The only smart thing Maduro and his people did was laundering their dirty money by circulating it in the country's economy, which bettered the average person's quality of life and opened up lots of job opportunities, so the people calmed down.