In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Even before the ban, Canada had significant hurdles to obtaining a handgun.
The stats reflect that (and not the ban).
We also ban (most?)
semi automatic rifles as I recall and have some hard caps on magazine sizes.
Just check weapons used on various US school shootings and they are generally illegal or heavily restricted (like handguns) in Canada.
Meanwhile, in Canada, there have been 11 (Correction; looks to be between 15 and 19 total) deaths in school shootings.
().
And also, they have guns.
It’s not like Canada is some gun-free country.
They have plenty of guns.
They just don’t give them out to everyone who so much as thinks about gun ownership.
>Canada has experienced a total of 19 school shootings between 1884 and 2016.
The deadliest of these events was the Ecole Polytechnique massacre in Montreal, which resulted in 15 deaths, including that of the shooter.
Several Canadian school shootings have resulted in a single death or no deaths at all.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Sure, but we didn’t have anywhere near the same number of handguns even before the ban.
The ban is unlikely to decrease the number of school shootings seeing as we barely had any to start with.
Also - so there’s still plenty of guns and all this is basically within the last few years right?
So my point stands - they have guns, tight laws, and basically no mass shootings.
Except that canadians have had guns up until the current legislation and your gun crime is a fraction of a fraction of the US’s gun crime and violence.
Because your laws have worked to keep guns from dangerous hands.
Gun laws work.
Loose gun laws in the US lead to massive gun deaths and crime.
Well that’s easy then!
All we need is low population density and to solve poverty, should be done by noon.
I’m sure the people advocating for “guns for everyone” are also pushing a robust safety net and other measures that will prevent poverty and its effects.
It is absolutely possible to be pro gun and anti-poverty, it just seems to be a relatively small number of people in practice.
The US has been doing a terrific job with the whole poverty thing for the last few decades.
I’m sure they will have that fixed in no time!
You think people are less stressed in Canada?
We have essentially all the same issues, with the added stress of “that country to the south could go bananas any day and we are just along for the ride without any way to impact it”.
Either we replicate the model of Idaho and Vermont, by banning any population density higher than 2 people and three farm animals per square mile, or we go the gun control route.
And by we I mean you guys I guess, I’m Canadian so we already dealt with the issue.
And I’m sure you have a magic wand that solves poverty: time to wave it!
Alternatively, you could check out places that still have poverty yet have fewer gun deaths than the US.
US homicide rate is at 6.52 per 100k people.
Same metric and units for France: 1.35, Germany: 0.93, UK: 1.12, Canada 1.97.
All numbers 2020.
US suicide rate is at 13.42 per 100k people.
Same metric and units for France: 12.1, Germany 8.3, UK: 10.5, Canada \11.
Worth noting that all of those are approximate and, especially in the states due to insurance, some number of gun deaths get filed as "accidental" rather than suicide.
Those countries haven't magically eradicated poverty or changed human nature but they have avoided an unhealthy obsession with boomsticks.
As for the goal posts, you cherry picked 4 US states that happen to have low poverty and low populations.