In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Because of how insane trump has been, the last election security bill basically neutered what Harper was supposed to do (it legally mandated that states have to appoint electors based on the popular vote).
The supreme court was supposed to speed run our country into a right wing theocracy.
They were only thwarted because they got shit slightly out of order.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Scary thing.
Pundits think what went wrong was the order of things.
That republicans were hoping for the Harper case to come first so the republicans could disregard elections going forward and then abortion was supposed to be undermined to keep the evangelicals happy.
Is Harper about the Independent State Legislature Doctrine?
The idea being state legislators have the right & authority to ignore the will of the people in presidential elections, and the state General Assembly decides which presidential electors to send to the Electoral College.
Yeah, but the election security bill that McConnell was convinced to back puts federal protections into place to neuter that a lot.
The case will still do a ton of damage with gerrymandering and voter suppression.
But that's already happening either way.
They went after the big fish when they should have started with the minnow.
Most people would have no idea about the Harper case or care.
If they went after that one first, they would have better positioned themselves to sweep mid-terms and lay the groundwork for rolling back rights for women, LGBTQ+, minorities, immigrants, etc.
By pissing off so many people with the abortion rights attacks and openly unveiled threats to steal the future of generations, they ensured that the voters opposed to these things would turn out in droves.
They will never again get the chance to take advantage of a bored, politically disengaged public.
People were ready to rest after Biden was elected.
These idiots caught the car and the spotlight and now everyone is watching their antics.
GOP schemes require the ability to work in the dark, to effectively gaslight, the stir up their smaller voting base while most of the country shrugs.
Harper's success needed a bored, ignorant, and disengaged public.
It's already dead in the water thanks to SC going for Roe v. Wade instead.
And that's regardless of if it passes.
Because how are you going to throw out elector votes in swing states where the GOP doesn't have power?
Funnily enough, I'm not even sure about this anymore.
Thanks to the GOP's "elections are rigged" propaganda finding a successful home in their own base, they seemed to have unintentionally discouraged an untold amount of GOP voters from ever showing up to the polls again.
Imagine losing the most reliable voting block in the country because you successfully discouraged them from taking part in the process?
Anyone that doubted Biden's speech about MAGA extremists being semi fascist just has to look at the results here.