If the web site is programatically generated, the student can also do analytics, stats, etc as part of the project.
At these engagements you can show how the program can be used in real-world application to what they are learning, and/or be useful to them in their class now. Best of breed for that would be the use of $\LaTeX$ for the writing class - freeing them from formatting and presentation details to work on their writing skills
Science classes would  be my immediate thought, where data can be collected to support experimentation. The most obvious metrics being weather, sunlight, etc. for biology type things (not my subject, so I'm a bit weak on examples).
If your kids can do web development - particularly programatic web development (say using something like flask, ruby on rails etc.) then an easy entry point is with history or social studies or even English - instead of having the kid do a 10 page paper on blah blah blah, have them make a web presence on blah blah blah. This can be a richer more interesting and in fact interactive experience rather than a paper and it's easier to share with the world.
As a guest in the computer class, you could look for any instructors that rely on computer programs in their course material. Especially useful would be any that employ a program that is Free/OpenSource software. (If it is hosted on GitHub where they can also look at, that's even better.) A good candidate might be an art class that uses GIMP.
If you find a significant portion of your students have a common interest in another field, you could engage that department for a collaborator who can show how the computer is used in their field, even if it's not applied in the classroom itself. (Of course that could also include teaching those instructors as well, so that they are in a position to understand the tools at least as well and the students they teach.)
The first set of ideas is to present how the use of computers can help them now with their classwork. The second set is to show your students the application of what they are learning in your class to things they already know, or will be taking soon. The third set of ideas shows how computers are being used in the work-a-day world to make things easier, or better, in the field they are really interested in. The final idea is a method of beginning the idea of collaboration in your school before the other instructors realize it's even possible.
Lastly, to get things rolling, you could offer to do a session or two in another class to teach their students extra features of the Office software that they use, if any, with the students. Lab science classes probably need at least Excel for processing and presenting measurement data from experiments.
In physics, accurate timing and acceleration are easy to sample, so that can also be linked to experiments.
One of the cool thing is that (1) they get to better understand the topic of the other course (provided you double check with your colleagues that you don't state anything foolish !) but it also allows you to introduce some CS problems : the computer is a discrete machine, you need to approximate numbers, this leads to errors which lead to graphical glitches etc...