nedm has a good answer, but to elaborate: If you want to see all of the computers in Network Neighborhood or My Network Places you need to make sure they're all in the same workgroup, that NetBIOS over TCP is enabled, that File and Printer Sharing for Microsoft Networks is bound to the network adapter, that the Workstation service is running, that the Server service is running, and that the Computer Browser service is running.
How can I get my Win7 machine to see other machines on the network, and allow it to find machines by name?  I have tried making a lot of changes to the laptop and the desktop, but possibly the problem is in the router.  
This question is probably better asked on SuperUser.com, and I suspect will be short-lived here.  But while I'm typing, try manually editing the hosts file on your laptop (c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts) and add the IP address and name of the server.  Also, make sure the windows computers in your network are in the same workgroup if you aren't joined to a domain.
First make sure that the Win7 and Mediasmart machines have network discovery turned on: http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows7/Enable-or-disable-network-discovery and then give all the machines a little time to talk to each other (5 minutes should be fine). If it isn't working at that point (and I've a feeling it wouldn't be -certainly from the XP box) then you have two options.
If you want to be able to connect to each computer by name, you can use any one of the following mechanisms: the lmhosts file on each computer (for NetBIOS name resolution), the hosts file on each computer (for DNS name resolution), or set up an internal DNS server and configure each computer to register with this server and to use this server for DNS resolution.
Also, when I open explorer from the laptop and look at the list of network computers, the laptop only sees itself.
The reason why this is an issue is because I have just added a mediasmart server to the network, and in order for the Win7 laptop to sync with the server, the laptop needs to connect to the server by name.
From the Win7 machine, I can ping the XP machine, and I can access shared folders if I use IP address, but I cannot use the name of the machine.