To help with this some people have added ipconfig /registerdns to the end of their logon scripts that execute upon successful VPN connection, however this still does not remove an old bad entry.  I do not know of a third party that solves this problem currently, and as a result I usually have a customer confirm their IP address.
This is a common problem with remote access solutions.  Pass through DHCP is supposed to take care of this problem, but it is often not used due to being less reliable than using the built in DHCP of a VPN product.  Many of these built in products do not tell appropriate DNS entries to be removed when a client disconnects.  
Does anyone have any suggestions or are able to clarify a way to prevent this from occuring?  I am working with my IT deptartment to resolve this issue, their current stance is that it is fine as SYSTEMX is not on the network SYSTEMSTEALTH comes in after and all is good.  However being able to "ping SYSTEMX", connect to it, file share to it using admin shares; this does not seem right to me since SYSTEMX is really SYSTEMSTEALTH.
I have a system (SYSTEMX) that is connected to our network through a VPN.  Periodically the VPN gets disconnected and SYSTEMX loses its connection to the network.  When this occurs I usually easily find out from a log generated during a nightly task that fails as a result of the sytem being offline.
I know this is an old post, but did anyone try unchecking "Register this connection's address in DNS" under advanced TCP/IP options of the network adapter created by the VPN client?
I am not an expert on network topology however it seems to me that upon distributing a new DHCP lease there should be communication to the name server to remove stale entries for that address to prevent this type of scenario.
For sure it is a very common problem. There is a white paper on this subject on Synergix website www.synergix.com.  Basically, the idea is to have the client machine do the self-management by removing any of their previoulsy registered entries.  This way you don't have to readjust the DNS Scavenging Interval to whatever you may have set it to.  The software Active Directory Client Extensions by Synergix will do this job elegantly.
When I do an "nslookup SYSTEMX" and "nslookup SYSTEMSTEALTH" both names resolve to the same IP address.
The DNS entries will get cleaned up but it can take time for these changes to replicate depending on how complicated your topology.  In this scenario it would make sense to set up a reservation to ensure that your IP address for SYSTEMX is reserved for that machine only.
I ping the system "ping SYSTEMX" and get timeouts as expected.  Reconnect the VPN and it is good to go.
Two times however the log has had different results as a new system (SYSTEMSTEALTH) will come in and resolve to the same IP address that SYSTEMX was given.