That said, here are some things you could try. Open up the 'Network' section of System Preferences. If you've not already, you may find it convenient to create a new "Location" for your university settings. Once you've done so, select AirPort and click the 'Advanced...' button.
Via the Apple logo, bring up the 'About this mac' dialogue and go into 'More info'; this brings up the System Profiler. Click on the 'Airport' and check to see the strength of your wifi signal. If you are getting a signal of -70 dBm or higher (i.e. closer to -58 dBm), then your signal strength is fine. If however you see a lower dBm, of say -85 dBm, then this is below the range of a stable connection; below -70 dBm your Aiport will try to re-scan for a stronger connection - hence the connection loss.
There are two issues that you should check. In the Network Settings, go into 'Advanced' and then hit the tab 'TCP/IP'. If the Configure IPv6 is set to 'Automatically' or 'Manually', you might try turning it 'off'.
It looks like the system should do it automatically. I would use a new location in network preferences so that any settings can be turned off when on other networks. In network preferences, on the airport, click advanced, 802.1X tab, and remove any profiles that are there to force the system to create a new one. You should be able to connect to the network normally. I have also had a problem with being asked for the password again, but I think this is a network issue and not a computer issue.
As I said in the comments, do go and ask your university's help desk. You never know - you may be lucky and find someone who knows Macs from personal life or a previous job. Also ask around on university and/or student association forums/web boards/mailing lists/Facebook pages/wikis if they exist - you probably aren't the only Mac user on campus and one of the others may have cracked it already.
In the advanced pane, first go to the AirPort tab and delete any university-related wireless networks (including the one you're trying to connect to). Next, go to the TCP/IP tab and make sure 'Configure IPv4' is set to "Using DHCP". Finally, in the 802.1X tab, delete any user profiles. Hit 'OK', then 'Apply'.
That should clean out any old or incorrect settings you might have. Once you've done that, try connecting to the wireless network again. From memory, it'll pop up and ask you for your 802.1X user name and password after a short delay. If it works, double check the settings in System Preferences (particularly the 'Always prompt for password' check box in the 802.1X tab of advanced) and check if you need to set up a proxy (this was a big sticking point on an earlier incarnation of our university's wireless set up).
While I have to admit that my only experience with university 802.1X networks on OS X was pretty straight forwards (select network; what's your password?; works), that was on 10.4 and some time ago.