Of course with that solution, eventually the community would sort out their own nicknames for levels based on anything they could.
You can make the puzzle search resistant by avoiding key words associated with the puzzle.  You can practice disinformation by posting fake solutions to the puzzle in all the usual places so anyone looking for the solution finds a flawed solution and wastes their time till they give up without ever finding.  Basically you create a haystack of fake solutions to bury the valid user posted solution so finding the real solution online is a harder puzzle than figuring out the game problem solution. 
On a side note, the bigger issue in the above is validating that the solution is actually a real solution to the puzzle and not just a faked set of score data.  The developer has a dev post on this where he describes a server-side validator that checks each solution against a model of the game logic prior to accepting the reported score.  This might actually be of more concern for you (if you want to allow score comparisons) than whether players can duplicate eachother's solutions.
You could try doing something like a hint system, so that instead of getting frustrated they could get a hint from in-game at the right time, knowing that it won't be giving away too much and that they'd feel good for not cheating. You could even disable the hints for extra points.
A potential solution to this would be to anonymize the levels and swap out the order, so they can't say "Level 10", or "The final encounter", they'd only be able to provide screenshots. 
Unfortunately I don't wish to be incredibly explicit here because part of beating cheaters is being sneaky about what it is you are doing to nab them.  My general suggestion is--cheaters give up really easily and are lazy, change the answers (the methods of solving are usually elaborate--keep those the same).  Also, charge a very small but some kind of fee/donation to play.  The first x levels can be free, just at some point make sure your audience is the audience you want.  (i.e. free of cheaters)  Perhaps even tie this to a user account and log what they guess as answers so when they guess answers that make absolutely no sense (but match a list of answers from before) now you know who cheated.  When people have skin in the game they feel less likely to cheat and cheaters want a free lunch--if it stops being free now they're not only feeling bad for not being able to solve it, they also have no interest in paying for something they get no value out of anyway.  That's the best suggestion I can give that requires the least effort. 
It helps a lot if your mechanics allow for more than one solution to the same puzzle.  A good example of how this can play out in a positive way is the game SpaceChem, made by Zachtronics.  There are actually two separate score metrics (often with competing requirements, meaning that optimizing one requires reducing the other.)  Because there are so many different solutions to each puzzle, copying a solution off the internet really doesn't impact much (just changes the histogram slightly for how many players achieve each score.)  Of course, some of the puzzles in the game are fiendishly difficult, so maybe it's best that players can cheat if they want to.
I felt compelled to write something.  I do online riddles all time, have written them, and care very deeply for the development of intriguing riddles.  I have to say that the accepted answers to this as mostly garbage.  In my findings, numerous people cheat--it's just the human condition.  People get stuck and it's a test of their own honor.  At least 50% and probably close to 90% cheat at some point in the completion of riddles.  There is a significant difference in asking for a hint and there exists sites of just riddle solutions.
If a player cheats, it's likely either because they're frustrated with a particular puzzle (and want to continue progressing) or they're disinterested in a particular puzzle and just want to get it over with.  Either case may be indicative of a problem with the particular puzzle's design.
I will never understand the need to cheat at a game, especially riddles because the entire thing is a journey--there is no time limit, everyone solves it differently, and the entire 'game' and fun is the process of moving logically (or illogically as the case may be) to the solution.  I had a friend that would literally buy a new game and immediately cheat at everything...so a lot of what has been said as other answers here just don't fit the psyche I see and have to deal with when designing stuff like this.