Don't try to charge your iPhone with a Microwave, and don't try to use a standard household microwave oven to nuke electronic components.
I wanted to return under warranty. I wanted my files erased / unreadable and the card visibly undamaged.
I took a 9V battery and two wires. I put a wire from each terminal of the battery to a contact on the card, trying out different contact combinations. The card heated up pretty fast. It gets too hot to touch. You'll need to keep the current flowing, get the card very hot. It took around 3 five minute sessions for me to achieve my goal of making the card unreadable.
Warning: this method has a risk of burning yourself and potentially other hazards I haven't considered. Replicate my method at your own risk - I take no responsibility for your actions.
I've since read that with at least some Microwaves, the metal may reflect the microwave and the result may be damage to some shielding.  After that, the Microwave may not operate safely the way it was designed to.  It may also cause further damage, since the shielding may not work as intended.  Also, if the shielding is damaged, that might not be easily visible.  Well, that was my understanding from what I read somewhere one day, and it seems consistent with my personal experience.
I guess eventually the insides melted a little or the current damaged the gates. Either way the card was no longer readable. I tested this on multiple readers and devices.
Granted, a little bit of copper hidden behind plastic might be less prone to cause damage than a metal fork.  But, why risk it?  You might watch the Microwave carefully and not be able to see visible damage right away.  But then if the thing has become less safe, and then further damage happens seventeen weeks from now when you're feeling less concerned and aren't watching the microwave quite as carefully...  rakslice's comment about burning a house down was right on the money.
If you want to destroy your data without taking out your microwave at the same time, there's always DriveSlag...
I still remember the day that I put a fork in a microwave as a child.  From then on, the microwave would emit little spark arcs...  like little lightning bolts.  It was permanently damaged.