At first sight this might appear hard. It becomes easy, however, if you know the result that an undirected $n$-vertex graph can have at most $n(n-1)/2$ minimum cuts, and they can all be listed in polynomial time. 
Here is another example: given an undirected simple graph, decide if it has two vertex-disjoint circuits. 
Finding the number of (distinct) real roots of a real polynomial, either in all of ℝ or in a given interval. Sturm's theorem tells you that a sequence of polynomials that fulfils a small number of requirements can be used to count the number of real roots of a polynomial with real coefficients.
The goal of this is to illustrate for students that learning more theorems can be  useful, even for those  who are outside of the theory field (such as software engineers, computer engineers etc). Here is an  example: 
One can naturally try to construct a recursive algorithm, by reducing the graph to a smaller one. This can be carried out easily, as long as the graph has a vertex with degree $\leq 2$. If, however, a graph is reached with minimum degree $\geq 3$, then it seems hard to find out how to continue, unless you know the following theorem (which originates in two papers, published independently by L. Lovasz and G. Dirac in 1965): 
Surprisingly, few people know about this result, despite it being quite old (1829). It is used in many Computer Algebra Systems, but all the mathematics professors at my university whom I asked either didn't know Sturm's Theorem at all or they only knew it by name and that it has something to do with roots of polynomials.
less complex examples: there are some theorem-like properties that show that greedy algorithms for some problems are optimal. its not so obvious to the uninitiated a minimum spanning tree can be found by a greedy algorithm. somewhat similar conceptually is Dijkstra's algorithm to find a shortest path in a graph. actually in both cases the associated "theorems" are nearly the same as the algorithms.
Most people are quite surprised when you tell them that something like counting real roots exactly is this easy and does not require any approximation, considering that finding roots is much more difficult. (Remember that for polynomials of degree ≥ 5, there does not even exist a “proper” formula for roots)
Can you provide further examples in this spirit, where knowing a (not so standard) theorem greatly simplifies a task?
Note that we require that the parameters are exactly equal to the given numbers, they are not just bounds. If you want to solve this from scratch, it might appear rather hard. On the other hand, if you are familiar with the following theorem (see  Extremal Graph Theory  by B. Bollobas), the situation becomes quite different.
Notes: (1) The proof of the theorem is not at all easy. (2) Once we decided that two disjoint circuits exist, it  seems less clear how to solve the associated search problem, that  is, how to actually find such circuits. The theorem does not give direct advice to that.
Whether a real (multivariate) polynomial $p$ can be expressed as a sum of squares of real polynomials can be solved by reduction to semi-definite programming. Need to know SDP and that SDP can be solved efficiently. 
I am looking for nice examples, where the following phenomenon occurs: (1) An algorithmic problem looks hard, if you want to solve it working from the definitions and using standard results only.
Then, all you have to do is construct such a sequence (which isn't very difficult, but requires some edge cases and handling of the case of non-separable polynomials), and Bob's your uncle.
It can be extended to nearly-minimum cuts, which are larger than the minimum cut, but at most by a constant factor. Their number is still bounded by a polynomial. 
Since it is easy to check whether a graph is one of the graphs allowed by the Theorem, this provides us with a polynomial-time algorithm for the decision problem. 
These conditions are very easy to check, being simple  inequalities among the input parameters, so the existence question can be answered effortlessly. Furthermore, the proof of the theorem is constructive, resolving the construction issue, as well. On the other hand, this result does not appear standard enough, so that you can expect everybody to know about it.
Another example: given an undirected graph, does it have a minimum cut in which all the edges are disjoint? If so, find one.