This is a best practice for security reasons.  As others have mentioned, it prevents you from doing something accidentally, or from you getting compromised from browsing the network.  It also limits the damage your personal browsing can do -- ideally, your day to day work shouldn't even have local admin privileges, much less domain admin.
As for an example of people using this, my company does!  (200ish people, 6 man ops team)  In fact, our Domain Admins have -THREE- accounts.  One for everyday use, one for PC administration/installing software locally.  The third is the Domain Admin accounts, and used solely for administering servers and the domain.  If we wanted to be more paranoid/secure, a fourth would probably be in order.
Least Priv should be reason enough, but in case that's not, also consider that if you use an account with the same permissions as your users, you are more likely to suffer any issues that they do - and you can debug them on your own account too - often before they've even seen them!
knowing and keeping aware that you are using an admin account for your daily work makes you very cautious on whatever you do. so you don't just click on an email/link or just run any applications without triple checking. i think it keeps you on your toes.
It's also incredibly useful to counter Pass the Hash or Windows authentication token hijacks.  (Example) A proper penetration test will prove this easily.  Namely, once an attacker gains access to a local admin account, they will use that power to migrate into a process with a Domain Admin token.  Then they effectively have those powers.
In all theory, it is best that you don't use a top administrator logon for your day to day activities. There are plenty of reasons such as viruses - if you get a virus and you're running Domain Admin logon, then the virus has an easy way to get on your network, full access! The possible mistakes are easier to make for sure but I don't see that as the biggest challenge. If you go around your campus and logon with your top admin, someone may be looking over your shoulder for your password. All sort of things like that. 
Colleagues were reluctant at first but it became a rule of thumb, after the typical question about the virus threat "we got an antivirus" was debunked by an outdated virus database...