The "2" in 192.168.2 can be any other number 0-255 you want - it just must be the same on every system's IP.  192.168.X.X is one of the "private IP ranges."
You allocate them manually according to the rules above.  A spreadsheet tool works nicely to keep track.
As far as systems discovering other systems, this can be done through protocols that use "broadcast" (or multicast).  The last IP in a subnet is a broadcast address.  Traffic sent here is received by any system on that subnet.  Windows uses broadcast packets to discover and resolve hosts without a DNS or WINS server running.  Multicasting is a bit different, and is used by Bonjour (iTunes, Apple devices, some printers).  So if you connect a number of Windows systems to a switch with no internet, and manually assign IPs, you can usually address them with '\hostname' without an issue because of this.
Subnet masks determine how much of the address is used to identify the network itself, and how much is used to identify a system on that network.  I'll explain this in a simplified form.  For each 255 in the subnet mask, that corresponding number in the IP address needs to be the same on all system in a given network.
They aren’t. When you use an IP address directly, you don’t need a routing table. You simply send a packet to the appropriate address and the router routes it to the appropriate port (hence its name).
You get "free" routes simply based on the IP address and subnet mask assigned to your network interfaces.
That should be enough knowledge for you to set up a small number of systems on a switch.  Study more about subnet masks to understand further.
Hopefully you have physically verified their presence since you are manually assigning IPs on them.  Another column on your spreadsheet to keep track. If you expect systems you don't know to be joining and leaving your network (in the case of wireless, for example), or wanting to do this without user intervention, manual IP address assignment breaks down.  Though you could always implement Peg DHCP.  Anyway, this is one of the reasons why DHCP was invented.
One thing to keep in mind is that, if you have no internet connection, you have no default gateway, and do not specify one.  You also will not be able to access any public DNS servers.
So, 192.168.2.X with subnet 255.255.255.0, you can select any X (0-255) when assigning addresses.  The 192.168.2. part must stay the same on each system.
By default, you don’t. You can scan for them or you can manually add them to your HOSTS file, but there’s no reason that you should know of them automatically. That’s like asking how you can know about all the computers on the Internet. You don’t know about them until you actually need to contact one, then you find out its IP address from the DNS server.
If a network interface has the IP 192.168.2.10 with subnet mask 255.255.255.0 (aka /24), then just by virtue of that assignment, the system knows that if it wants to talk to anything with an IP from 192.168.2.1 through 192.168.2.255, it can use that network interface.  So this route appears in the routing table.  This is a directly connected route.