Seems like you are hitting bug CSCtq86186. This bug has been found on 3750s, 2960s, but it may be affecting the blade switches as well.
The specifics reasons are head of line blocking (HOLB), where multiple source ports are sending to one destination and so we get congestion. Another common reason is when going from a higher port speed to a lower one, ie 10G to 1G or 40G to 10G.
Unless someone is clearing counters you should never see any odometer-type counters (those that increment based on a packet action) decrease, they should always increase.  That part sounds like a bug.
If you are experiencing unicast flooding, running wireshark on one of the hosts or spanning one of the ports should show that pretty quickly.
As far as what causes output drops in particular, there are so many different causes that it's very difficult to pinpoint it exactly.  Sometimes there is congestion inside the switch's backplane and those might show up as output drops on the outgoing interface.  In rare circumstances you can also get microbursts that don't show up when polled at 1 minute intervals that quickly overload the interface, but then drop back down very quickly.  I would suggest grabbing the SNMP OID for output drops and then graphing that and see how it corresponds to the CLI counter.
I recommend you run show controllers ethernet-controller X where X is your port. You should get some information regarding output drops, like if something is trying to output to large frames, which could happen if you don't have consistent MTU across your network.
CAM tables hold entries for 5 minutes while ARP tables are kept for four hours (defaults).  Setting the ARP to match the CAM may eliminate the unicast flooding at the expense of a slight increase to the CPU.  Catalyst 6500/6000 Switches ARP or CAM Table Issues Troubleshooting
Output drops are rather common on smaller switches with small buffers as any burst will deplete the buffer. I'm not really familiar with the 3120 so I can't speak for the size of it's buffer, but at least that's a common reason till why one could get output drops.
It sounds like you have redundant cores in a square topology?  If so, try adding this command to your vlan interface:
Generally speaking, you don't want any output drops as they indicate a packet that did not make it to its destination.  But, if you're running your links hot (which you say you're not) they're unavoidable to an extent, mostly due to interior switch buffering, etc.
My first thought is unicast flooding, especially if the counters increment in unison across a number of ports in the same vlan. I agree with Aaron that the counter decrementing sounds like a bug. The counter will probably roll over at 2^64, but that won't happen within seconds. I would consider a healthy rate of output drops to be zero, but this is not realistic--even in the datacenter. Are you doing 10G uplinks?