Why don't you just try outputing 800x600 or 1024x768 out the VGA port to your TV?  You could also look at a USB/VGA or similar for S-Video/HDMI but they are not the best for high res video and quality.
There used to be a number of such adapters. The most popular was made by a company "Dazzle". Last I knew they were still around although you seldom see there products advertise or on store shelves any more. I had used a couple of these adapter maybe 7 or 8 years ago. They were very good for their time. Their products would work when you have an older PC or older TV without a more modern interface.  
Another option is to go with a USB external video card that supports DVI. The advantage to this is that it will allows support for a wider variety of resolutions. The solution I suggested above should work even on a low end video card, but there is still a chance that you will not be able to get 16:9 out of it.
I don't know what you budget is for this project, but I would not be surprised if this exceeded it. I am going to provide the information anyway though, just in case! There is a company called Gefen who makes great products for video in the pro-sumer to professional range. The product I would recommend is the Gefen VGA to DVI Scaler PLUS, the MSRP is $329USD, but I imagine you could find it cheaper elsewher. The product takes VGA in scales it and outputs DVI. This is important because you cannot simply adapt VGA to DVI or HDMI, it must be scaled up in order to match the resolution of your display. Gefen also makes a DVI to HDMI adapter (www.gefen.com/kvm/dvi-hdmi-adapters.jsp (Sorry I cn only post one hyperlink as a new user)) (so do other companies, but I really like this one) if your TV does not support DVI, or if you would just prefer HDMI. I'm sure there are other hardware solutions out there that would work for what you are looking for, but this is the only device that I have had personal experience with, and therefore is the only one I am comfortable recommending. 
Be very careful; Do not purchase a VGA->Component cable, it will not work. These cables are for converting Component-over-VGA to component cables, for devices that already output a component signal to a VGA port. Your laptop does not do this, and you will need an actual coverter box. A VGA->HDMI converter box will probably run you ~$100 to ~$200 depending on your resolution needs, but will be your best bet for picture quality.
Also, as many others have suggested, stay away from S-Video if you can. It is a horrible format and I really wish it would just go away.
A few answers have mentioned S-Video, which you want to avoid. S-Video is very limited in the resolution it will carry, something around 480 lines.