In Plants vs. Zombies the game spawns zombies continuously throughout the stage while also having two big waves per level: one at the half way point and one grand finale.
To me, the biggest reason for these big waves is to provide dynamic peaks and troughs in the gameplay.  Peaks produce an emotional response that boosts the player's adrenaline and give them the sense they are overcoming a big challenge.  "Troughs", or the lulls in between waves, give the player time to mentally relax before the next big wave.  This peak/trough dynamic is a lot more exciting and engaging that just a steady, uniform, or slowly increasing spawn rate.
If you bunch up the enemies into groups (and with different speeds) then the zombie who takes damage from your towers keeps changing while they move - in effect moving the weaker zombies to the back when they've taken damage.
There are a few reasons I can think of. I'll answer this based on the tower defense genre and not just Plants vs Zombies (which of course copied the basic TD formula).
Also bunching up enemies distributes the damage your towers are dealing differently. If the enemies are spawning at a fixed rate, there is no accumulation of enemy groups that create interesting gameplay events. If everyone moves at a fixed rate, the level is very predictable. After you've seen the first two enemies get destroyed - you already know you've won and the level will feel repetitive.
Also, the super wave at the end is something many (if not most) other TD's do as well. It's like any other game that has a boss at the end of the level. You'd better be prepared for it or the rest of the level was all for naught!
I think the reasons for this are of a much simpler nature: letting the player know how much longer they need to survive and allowing them to react accordingly. For example you know that the next wave is the last wave which will be harder than the previous ones so you pay extra attention towards improving your defenses.
Unless you are making a horror game it is never good to leave the player in the dark about what awaits him. Else it can be a source of frustration, and frustration is not good. The player might think the game is unfair and stop playing it.