A tale has been drifting around the Internet for some time to the effect that the DVI and HDMI specs give a maximum distance of 15 feet. This isn't actually true. The HDMI spec, in fact, gives no length limit explicitly at all, but the requirements of the spec implicitly give rise to some length limitations for "compliant" cables. A cable isn't permitted to degrade the signal past a certain point--that point is a bit hard to put one's finger on, because a cable is deemed spec compliant if it meets either of two tests: an "eye-pattern" test which measures the overall shape of the HDMI waveform at the cable output, or a set of parametric tests which measure the attenuation and other losses in the signal.
According to these Gizmodo articles (The truth about Monster cable, Part I, Part II & Part III), for a short 2m run practically any cable will do, but for 10m runs to 1080p you might run into problems with lower quality cables. They suggest trying a cheap cable to start with and if you have problems look for a certified HDMI 1.3a "Highspeed" cable. 
There's usually not any difference in quality between cheap and expensive cables. I would go for the cheapest cable I can find at the length you want.
I'd like to connect my PC to an HDTV using an HDMI-HDMI cable. The distance between them is about 8 m; is the length going to be an issue? I'm worried the signal might deteriorate over such a distance.
There is no definitive max length specified in the HDMI specification. I'm using a 5m cable myself to transmit 720p without issue.
The Monoprice 35ft ($35.17) and 50ft ($53.64) cables they tried both failed the 1080p lab tests though the 35ft cable passed the real-world test when connected to a TV (rather than a signal analyzer), possibly due to error correction built in to the TV. So that cable might be a good one to try.
I recall a study where cable quality only matter when the length is insane, like 50m+. Sadly, I can't find the study/review right now. 
Also, does price have any major impact on the signal quality? I'd like to buy an 8-10 m cable for somewhere around 20$. Would such a cheap cable be good for what I want?