My bet is it was the power supply and the UPS is fine. Interestingly, the MWE-450 claims a hold up time of only 14ms while a UPS may rely on the hold up time being 16.6s so technically, the configuration was not really guaranteed to work.
Since replacing the power supply solved the problem, my bet is the UPS is fine. Though, of course, it's possible that the UPS is taking longer than it should to restore the AC supply to the power supply and the new supply is better able to handle the out-of-spec UPS.
As mentioned by @sawdust in his answer, it could be that your computer power supply was a PFC (Power Factor Correction) one which requires a truer sine-wave UPS to function.  These PFC power supplies are higher efficiency, and are getting more common, especially in higher power supplies in gaming rigs, etc.  These power supplies are known to shut down if they don't get sufficiently sine-wave voltage.  The computer power supply that you listed is a PFC model, and if your UPS is a lesser-cost one that isn't producing a true-enough sine wave, that could likely be your problem, and possibly the cause of death of your old power supply.  To be safe, if you have a PFC power supply, you need to make sure your UPS is one that's listed as PFC compatible.
UPS models such as this one are called stand-by or "line interactive" models. The brochure for this one says that while it's on battery, it will output 230 V +/- 10%. While it's online, it will pass whatever the actual line voltage is; this may vary some amount more or less than 230 V as well. So conceivably, if your line voltage is 225 V at a given moment, and the power dies or you unplug it, the UPS could switch onto battery and immediately start putting out, say, 240V. Or vice versa. And this really shouldn't matter to your PC.
This is a specific power supply requirement and good quality power supplies easily meet it. However, cheap power supplies, overloaded power supplies, or old power supplies whose capacitors have lost capacity are not able to maintain the proper hold up times. This results in a drop in their DC output voltage when the power goes out before the UPS can accomplish its magic.
But UPS's don't last forever. How old is this one? The switches which engage when it goes on and off battery mode may be rated for a surprisingly low number of cycles; if you have frequent power outages, or if you're in an office which does weekly switchover tests to generator, you can hit this limit in a year. And batteries can fail after a year or so, even if they've been used infrequently. We use a large number of small (1000 VA) UPS units where I work, and they frequently fail rather like this: they simply fail to power the load one day, with no advance warning about battery state or any other error.
When I hear that a computer reboots or restarts when on backup power, I always suspect that the power supply is low quality, overloaded, or failing.
Test the UPS by rigging up a purely resistive load (like incandescent lamps, or a heater on a low setting) amounting to some power in the middle of the UPS's range, say 100 to 400 Watts (since this is a 600 VA unit), and see if the UPS can power it for more than a few seconds. It could just be that the UPS is end-of-life, or needs a battery replacement.
When the power fails, the UPS has to start supplying power to the computer and disconnect the computer from the power line as quickly as possible. The power line doesn't typically fail open, it typically fails like a dead short as every device in your house is trying to draw power that isn't there. It's the job of the power supply in your PC to continue to supply power to the computer while the UPS is accomplishing these two feats.