You'd better use FileVault instead of trying to delete your data afterwards. It's the best way to be sure that nobody will have access to your data. An operating system can always be reinstalled...
It won't erase your hard drive in the case of theft, but it will prevent someone from accessing your data.
Have you considered FileVault? While it's not the exact solution you're asking for, it's built into MacOS and will prevent someone from accessing your data if your computer is stolen.
Go to System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> FileVault to enable it. To get the level of security you need, you'll also need to disable the guest account, make sure that your user account has a password, and make sure that your computer prompts you for a password at boot.
You are much better off encrypting the hard-drive en mass ( using something like the built in, FileVault or OpenPGP) with a strong key. That, while not being a guarantee of your data security is the first step to being much safer in the event of computer loss.
The problem with this solution is first, even if you do successfully login and delete finder, all of your files are still there and completely recoverable. Furthermore, you are assuming the stolen computer will ever connect to a network so you can execute this protection strategy. The boot-ability of your computer is irrelevant to the removal of data from it. And in fact, can serve as something of a hindrance. If you want data out of a computer it's usually much faster to remove the hard-drive and salve it to another computer.
To the unsuspecting thief, encrypted data might as well be corrupted data if the computer does not boot. Of course, they might attempt to re-install the OS; however, I suspect those most thieves won't want to invest that much time or effort to get a working system. There are third party remote access services, but unfortunately I'm not sure which ones are available for Macs. You might consider adding some startup apps that send an email with whatever info you collect at startup. I would like that you could get local IP, public IP (by scraping whatismyip.com), and possibly grabbing cam shots when the computer is in use. In short if your computer is unusable at boot time, it won't make it onto a network; however, if it's usable (even in a limited capacity), then you have the opportunity to collect data and possibly retrieve your equipment. Be sure to make backups of your critical data, and don't store them with your computer.