After the scan copy the files to flash/memory card. There will be shortcut problem this time. If there is a shorcut problem, just do the following steps:
Let go of your Alt key while you're dragging. If the system thinks it's being pressed, the default action (when dragging) is to create a link (or shortcut). If your Alt key is not physically pressed on your keyboard, ensure Sticky Keys is turned off, check for any extra keyboards plugged in, and just try tapping the Alt key on each side, in case it got sticky.
When I copy any folder to my memory card, it becomes a shortcut and the attributes of that folder changes to protected operating system files (hidden). I've formatted my memory card completely, have scanned it using two antivirus programs but the problem remains the same. Can somebody solve this problem that my folder's shortcut is not created when I paste into my memory card. Because the hidden files are not accessible in phone.
Now open your memory card from My Computer and see whether there are anything other than shortcuts. If there is all you want, just delete the shortcuts. Thinks it will help you.
If there is virus. How to delete that virus, I've scanned it with two antivirus programs (Microsoft Essentials and AVAST Free). I've formatted that as well but no benefit.
No doubt, it is a virus. First of all update your Avast virus definition and perform a boot time scan on your system. Avast will find some virus for sure, first try to fix them automatically. If it doesn't worked repair them, and if the two procedures don't worked delete it.
In the mean time, have you tried zipping the files you want to copy to media card on to local partition, then from the zip program, unzip to the media card? Sometimes bad ware cannot hook programs other than explorer.exe.
On first launch, it asks to restart the computer before scanning for bad stuffs. When it finish scanning and if anything found, it offers "Remove". Then a reboot, it scans again to confirm the removal. Neat.