Dovecot recommends dsync but it is presumably developed for dovecot specifically. I want to quit using Thunderbird but I don't intend to use Dovecot right now, with its wiki mentioning some “Maildir++”. Dovecot also recommends (ibid.) mb2md.pl with some patches of Dovecot's own. mb2md seems to be what's recommended in general.
For the record, I intend to use mbsync with the new Maildir storage. Hopefully, the answer would not depend on this.
The question deserves more elaborate answer, as it's quite troublesome to accomplish the task for most users. Hopefully, I'll expand this in future.
Even though the matter might be trivial (mbox is nothing but string concatenation of eml's, right?), all the above is alarming: for a more than 10 year old format (Maildir), widely considered superior to mbox, there apparently is no standard migration mechanism. I don't want to convert blindly, only to find out later that some data was lost, as the mb2md page warns, or that I can't add more messages to the new Maildir storage without losing consistency, as mentioned in mbsync man page (search for the phrase “native scheme is faster”).
The relevant article on Mozilla wiki notes in its first paragraph: “Thunderbird's maildir implementation allows a single unique filename per email (EML). HOWEVER, note this is NOT full maildir in the sense that most people, particularly linux users or mail administrators, know as maildir.” So, presumably, Thunderbird's stock converter does not offer the proper solution.
I employed a simple Python script making use of mailbox library. (Thanks to notmuch IRC channel on freenode.)
Some messages were broken; the script stopped with error and a line number, so I had to use emacs (with vlf to open large files, I believe) to fix the problematic messages in mbox file.
Several ruminations on this topic can be found on the Internet. None (that is easily found) answers the question though, especially for those not familiar with both formats in detail.
While this is a programming question, the practical answer to get data exported from Thunderbird is to use the alternative addon "alternative import/export" and you can export to eml format among others
However, there are two implementations of mb2md: a sh+Python script and a Perl script. The former is the original implementation, and its page says literally the following about the Perl version: “if you encounter this particular [seemingly absurdly trivial environment-related] issue with my script, give it [the Perl implementation] a try”, and nothing else. It's not clear whether those two scripts operate the same way or even support the same syntax. (Brief inspection suggests it doesn't; why use the same name then?) Python version is reportedly from 2006 which makes it more than 10 years old as of today. It also so happens that the distribution I use (Gentoo) does not seem to have mb2md in its repository. I could install Dovecot and use its converter but this doesn't feel right.
The answer by wbob is useful and detailed. However, I had used a different solution before wbob suggested dovecot conversion. Besides, I ended up with notmuch storage. I have to accept my own answer because that's what got used after all.