You can't do OSX anything in a VM without violating Apple's licensing. Apple requires a 1:1 on the license to metal.  That said, I have been able to run 10.5.8 in a VM on Windows 7, so in theory it's possible.
Apple has clarified their licensing and do allow virtualisation now. Please check with your solicitor / Apple Sales Rep on those details. ADC Select Members should be able to do this without any trouble at all, for instance.
My suggestion is to run Windows 7 from VMFusion on a Snow Leopard install on the box.  Migrate your services over to Leopard from Server.  Surely Snow Leopard supports your RAID devices and all the equivalent services can be run?
It depends on which games you want to run as to how much joy you will get out of hosted Windows in Parallels. Because of the various tradeoffs in virtualiztion you don't get nearly all of your GPU performance through that setup. Most folks who play current Windows games on their Macs do so through Boot Camp, it seems. If the games are a little less demanding you should be able to play them fine in Parallels 4, but ymmv. I'd search around and check the Parallel's (or VMWare, etc) user forums to see if anyone has tried your favourite game on Win7/Parallels 4 (etc).
As it stands I think that the best match at the moment for your requirements is either VMware Fusion or Parallels even though neither of these are bare metal hypervisors. Even if there is a lot of progress on the client bare metal hypervisor front in the next year or so I doubt that any new product will outperform these two until they've gone through a couple of revisions and I strongly suspect that high performance client bare metal hypervisors will require hardware level enhancements. 
If you are looking to be able to use the system in such a way that you have direct interaction with a Guest running a high end GUI type OS as your interface then none of the leading "bare metal hypervisors" can do what you want as they are all designed for server virtualization. Both VMware and Citrix are both rumored to be working on bare metal client hypervisors but I've seen no indications that any releases are imminent. There are some solutions from smaller players available - Virtual Computer's NxTop is one, Neocleus' NeoSphere is another. I haven't come across any independent performance testing numbers of either of these and I suspect that at this stage neither of them supports high end graphics particularly well.
Notes: I have used Parallels on my MacBookPro 17 for years but have not tried Win7 or Vista seriously in a vm on my 2GB ram machine(!). I have an XP vm and have played some older games in it easily enough. I have no direct experience with the VMWare Fusion product but am assured that it's features are similar and hear that many people quite like it.
In 99% of situations hypervisors boot their VMs with a 'BIOS-like' boot-strap, not an EFI one. I'm unaware of any of the major virtualisation players offering an official EFI boot option, however I am very aware that there are people who have enabled this function under VMWare to allow them to run OSX Client. If I were you I'd google around for 'running OSX in a VM' or such like, these generally lead to illegal torrents containing unlicenced copies of OSX Client but also including files and instructions to allow this to work. If you were to simply substitute your own legal copy of OSX Server at this point I think you'll find this will work fine.
kordless is correct in pointing out that you cannot virtualize OSX without breaking Apple's licensing but it is certainly possible to virtualize OSX on VMware Workstation, I've done it too.  
Parallels Workstation Extreme isn't a Type 1\Bare metal Hypervisor but it does add an interesting twist to the Type 2 Hypervisor by enabling direct access to things like 3D Graphics and IO hardware from within Guest VM's. 
I can't say that I have tried this specifically but you should be able to run (Snow) Leopard Server in Parallels (and likely VMWare) along with Win7, on top of either OS X or OS X server. You'll need lots of CPU and RAM to make all of that run smoothly, but with a Mac Pro workstation I figure you have that covered.
Obviously others have covered the licencing issues but from a technical perspective you really only have one hurdle - emulating the EFI firmware that Macs require.