When using a T1 for data, the 24-individual channels are "bonded" to act like one, but deep down it is still 24 individual channels sending data.  You can split the T1... use some channels for data and some for phone calls.  In fact, I think Cisco PBXs let you assign certain channels for use as phone calls, but will use them for data when there is no phone call active.
How does it relate to Frame Relay?  something we used in my company over 15 years ago before ADSL became competitive. 
The bandwidth is actually provided as 24 individual channels, plus a control channel.  When the T1 was invented it was used for phone calls only.  The control channel was used to communicate to a PBX (phone system) to indicate phone calls incoming/outgoing and what channel they arrive on.
A T1 is an old telecom technology that provides 1.5M of bandwidth between two sites.  A T1 can be used for many purposes: phone calls, point-to-point data, internet connections, ISDN, etc.  Today they are generally used for providing 1.5M/sec of bandwidth between you and your ISP, or for providing a connection to your company's phone system (in which case it provides the ability to make 24 phone calls at a time).
T1 is rather inefficient compared to modern technologies.  However in the 1990s the phone company controlled "the last mile" to an office. They wouldn't run anything other than a standard phone line or a T1.  It was kind of a "hack" to get around the phone companies for ISPs to get really good at sending internet data over a T1, which really wasn't designed for data.  However since the phone companies wouldn't run fiber, that was the only choice.
The actual details of a T1 are very complex.  It was designed in the 1970s, when any kind of communication hardware was very expensive and difficult to design.  Consider this: The moon landings had just happened with about as much technology as what goes into a desk calculator today.  The phone company didn't have access to technology that was any more advanced. The T1 achieved 1.5M/sec and that was considered amazing for its day.  In reality, it was really 24 individual 64Kb channels.  They only had to build hardware that worked at 64Kb, yet they got 1.5M/sec (I'm exaggerating... it was quite a feat).
I often hear this term used "We have a T1"... used on SF and other sites.  I googled it and it seems like an ancient technology possibly related to frame relay but I'm not sure.  
-T1s are symmetrical meaning they offer the same bandwidth in both directions 1.5Mb up & 1.5 Mb down.  The speed of a T1 is guaranteed also - speeds for DSL/ADSL/COAX/Dial-up and other consumer grade services are almost always advertised as "up to x speed."  Until about 10 years ago this was the only affordable technology capable of this which made it important for bandwidth intensive companies and a facilitator of the internet as we all know it today.  Multiple T1 lines can be bonded to supply a multiple of  1.5Mb.  T1s are still fairly common in the USA, but in the past 5 years are being outsold by higher bandwidth symmetrical internet connections that offer an SLA on the speed and up time.  
It means you have a site with the internet connection (or point-to-point) carried over a 1.544 Mbit link. Unless you're using a multiplexer that does something very silly and weird (handing each DS0 to a different station), it probably just means that the router has a 1.5 Mbit connection to the internet, so yes, the full bandwidth should be available to any endpoint in the office.