But, if you are the type of sysadmin, who avoids being in the root level, unless he/she needs it intentionally, you are most probably logged in ans located under /home/some-user or if you logged in as root, you are in /root directory. Let's say your in /root. when you execute the command 
So, if you don't want to get the leading ./, which is what you get when you compress the local directory ., you can simply specify the files directly. For example:
In the old versions of tar, it used to use the full path names you provided, in the tar, but this is somehow problematic as one might want a second copy of something and an unintentional expansion of the tar archive in the old format days, might overwrite an existing file or files. 
if you expand this archive while your current working directory is / (i.e. root level), these files will go and overwrite the existing 
I am not sure why it is causing such a problem for you. if you are in the right directory level, where you want to expand this archive into, it will do just that. For instance, lets say you have a file as 
I've used tar -P to preserve the leading / (rather than ./)  It's not entirely clear if this would help in your case, though.
So, in most recent versions of tar binary, distributed in almost any linux distribution, puts the ./ at the beginning of each file it packs up, so that, an unintentional expansion, expands the archive into your current working directory and below.
This creates files in tar with leading "./" which later turns to problem when server needs to extract parts of tar.
This will list all files and directories (excent . and ..) of directory a_dir and add them to the archive. The --directory options sets the root from where tar will start looking for files.
if this is what you want, you've got it. But let's say, you only wanted the hosts files out of this archive but all of a sudden you obliterated profile passwd and group files. Hope you have a good backup at this point, so that you can get them back
Not sure what version of tar this is, but normally you have to specify what files you want to archive. Like tar c . to compress everything in the local directory. Running your command on my machine I get: