You don't mention the software you are using, but if it is a recent version of Adobe Photoshop you should have "VersionCue" available, that is supposed to give some kind of version control to Adobe documents. Might be tricky to setup.
If you use Linux there is copyfs that does automatic versioning and wayback-fs which claims to be able to add this to any other filesystem, though unfortunately both of these currently appear to be unmaintained.
I actually use a combination of Photoshop and (of all things) Apple's iPhoto. The iPhoto program keeps the original file, makes it easy to share and review images, and I can still use Photoshop for the heavy lifting.
An application specific method: if your app supports enough levels of undo and you realise what you have done before closing the document, you could just undo until you get back to the old version (if you opened it fresh before editing then undoing all the way will do this, otherwise you'll have to try judge how far back to go) so you can save it under another name, then close it and rename the resulting two files to reflect their current content.
Unfortunately there's no simple way to bring back the original once it's been overwritten on the hard drive. Your approach of undoing your edits and resaving is the one I'd use too!
A simple solution might be to make the original photo read only. If you do this as part of the routine you use when you upload from your camera it shouldn't be too onerous.
Another alternative would be something like Adobe's Lightroom, where versioning takes places automatically -- changes you make in Lightroom are always reversible and if you makes changes to an image outside Lightroom, you can always go back to the original. Apple makes a similar product called Aperture and then there is Google's Picasa -- although I'm not sure how it handles edits made in an external application.
Some online services like Dropbox will try to save a new revision whenever you hit Save (if the document is in the Dropbox folder).
Then when you come to save you should at least get a warning that the file is read only which will remind you to use save as.
Best chance would be Recuva, other than following the solutions above, this is the only software solution that might prove useful if you exit the program and open it up and realize the problem after doing so, i.e. no ctrl+z or remembering to save as. 