If it still fails, you'll have to call Microsoft support for them to verify the license key is correct or issue you a new one.  Contacting wherever you bought the volume license may be easier than calling Microsoft directly - they may know who best to call to handle licensing issues.
NOTE: Substitute XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX in this command below with your actual product key number with dashes instead. slmgr.vbs /ipk XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX 
Also double check that you typed (or preferably copy/pasted) the key correctly - didn't mix up an 8 for a B, etc.
I created an account just to answer this question. I just ran into this issue, and when I figured out the fix, I realized that I had run into this before.
That's it. For some reason Server 2012 R2 doesn't seem to sync up with an outside source at all, so until you set it manually, you're going to be off and activation and checking for updates won't work. For my install today the system thought it was November 2014 - 11 months ago!
Ok, I went back to MS Volume Licensing and downloaded the ISO file again for MS Server 2012r2 and I noticed that it was different that the one that I had previously installed.  I reinstalled this OS on the server and my MAK key worked this time.  So all is good again.  Thank you for your input.
You can't activate windows by phone because you have not put in the correct product key number. Here are the steps and I was able to activate over the phone. I have not see any one post these steps yet. I spent 4 days with Microsoft trying to get some helps. With other user's input and I was able to put together the complete steps. 
If that still fails, the easiest thing to do would be to install the GUI and activate it through the GUI, since you'll be able to see the full error messages easily.  One of the nice things about Server 2012 is you can add and remove the GUI at any time.
The reason you can't activate it is because you are not connected to the internet.  I learn it the hard way.  2012 R2's error is very generic.  When you put the license key, it try active the license right way.  Because you dont have internet, it cant verify it.
2.type slui.exe 4 to access the phone activation screen and follow the steps to activate over the phone.
1.To Change Product Key Number in a Command Prompt Open an elevated command prompt. In the elevated command prompt, type in the command below and press enter. 
Make sure you aren't accidentally using the KMS key - that needs to be installed on a KMS server and won't work directly.  Also make sure you installed the correct version of Server 2012R2 - some ISOs give you the option to install Standard or Datacenter, but the license key from one will not work on the other.