For the purists: yes, I know very well that VLANs and IP subnets don't necessarily have a strict 1:1 mapping; this is only the most common use for them, which seems to be what the OP is referring to.
In a company I use to work for we had a dozen buildings at our main campus and a few satellite campuses, so we had a IP addressing scheme, that allowed us to tell by an IP address what building a device was was in. That's my 2 cents, for what it's worth.
The only argument I see for adding VLANs is if you also change your IP addressing scheme.  Now, I think with only 4 floors which may be overkill.  
VLANs let you divide your network in smaller logical segments; this helps both in improving manageability and in limiting unnecessary broadcast traffic.
For such a small network it might actually be overkill: you could easily handle ~100 network objects with a single VLAN and IP subnet. But I think you should stick to this configuration, for two main reasons:
IME you are in the ball park where segregation of traffic across networks will improve performance. However the division of the VLANs seems to have been decided on the basis of the function of the member nodes rather than any effort for managing bandwidth. Certainly with this number of nodes you could get the same aggregate bandwidth by intelligently planning where you put switches rather than using vlans.
2) It scales a lot better. If you ever move from ~100 to > 200 network objects, a single /24 IP subnet will suddenly seem a lot smaller, and a single bigger one will very easily become a mess.
Well, could be useful to have separate VLANs for data (computers) and VoIP, so you can apply some sort of traffic prioritization. Separate VLANs for management of switches it's also useful. Separate VLANs per floor seems maybe too much for 100 Pcs, unless you plan to expand in the future.
Without seeing a detailled diagram and getting some real measurements its hard to say for sure, but I suspect that the setup you describe is giving you no performance benefits and lots of admin headaches.
1) It improves manageability; if you know f.e. that servers are in 192.168.1.X and clients are in 192.168.100.Y, it's easier to manage them. If all your addresses were in the 192.168.42.Z subnet, how could you (easily) distinguish between them?
VLANs segerate broadcast traffic. You don't have enough computers to worry about that. VLANs often but not always align with subnets. VLANs also let you apply some limited ACLs Switch ACLs can be a lot of upkeep with little benefit. Firewalls separate traffic better, ACLs on switch ports that can get messy.