If it's the former, you probably want to investigate LDAP or Active Directory integration; this would ensure that passwords changed in the central directory are reflected immediately on all machines connected to it.
These tools allow you to create configurations which are applied to all nodes, however a downside of using these to manage users is that you cannot centrally set passwords (each node has its own users with their own passwords and their own expiry) and you cannot easily change user groups - you can add to groups but not necessarily remove groups through configuration.
You can either re-use existing infrastructure (such as Active Directory) or set up a new LDAP infrastructure. One system worth considering is FreeIPA. This integrates LDAP, Kerberos and optionally DNS. For Linux clients it provides easy setup via a script, and for Solaris clients you simply set them up as an LDAP (and optionally Kerberos) client. FreeIPA implements policies so you can set password/account expiry and password complexity.
we would like to develop/install a tool that helps us with passwd resets, account creation/deletion, and other common user account mgmt tasks.
we have looked at webmin , puppet and AD-integration as potential solutions. but either they are too expensive, have too many holes (vulnerabilities) or our architecture does not permit such a deployment. so we are still looking.
2. doesn't need to have a web UI. could be a simple library/api that we can use to script up a user mgmt tool.
Do you want to have a centralized data store for this information that all machines access, or do you want to configure it locally (and perhaps independently) on each machine?
Also, specifying your constraints when asking a question will help you get more constructive answers. What about your architecture prevented which potential solutions from being used? If you list what you've already tried and why it didn't work, then people will know to avoid steering you down fruitless paths, or perhaps be able to help you work around the problems you encountered.
Centralised authentication will mean users having the same password everywhere, and groups are easily changed.
If it's the latter, then something like puppet or cfengine would be your best bet. cfengine in particular runs almost everywhere (definitely on both Linux and Solaris hosts), and would allow you to create and manage users easily. Here's a quick-start guide for getting familiar with cfengine.