I figured it out eventually but I felt the need to write this down for future reference for me and others. In my case I was using a single server install with Zimbra Open Source Edition, some of this might not apply to other instances.
Best practice in general is to install Zimbra on a virtual machine and use LVM or another technique that supports snapshots. This way you can create snapshots and in case anything goes wrong you just roll back to your snapshot.
In case you administrate your server via SSH, make sure you use screen for all upgrades. In case your connection gets interrupted it doesn't ruin your day (if the terminal session closes it terminates all running commands). With screen you an just resume with interrupted session with screen -r.
Proceed and answer with Y if you are asked if you want to upgrade. After the installation is done, run the same installer again, this time without the -s option:
Follow the instructions. You don't have to to the integrity check if you are asked, but it is a pretty good idea to do so. This might take a while but makes sure your database is intact. After the installation verify that everything is working fine.
Zimbra 8.0.5 on Ubuntu 12.04 --> Zimbra 8.6_for_12_04 on Ubuntu 12.04 --> Upgrade to Ubuntu 14.04 --> Install Zimbra 8.6_for_14_04 on Ubuntu 14.04
The -s option stands for software; it means the installer doesn't upgrade your data, it just installs the new software. You need the new software to upgrade your existing data (mail storage, settings, etc.), if you leave it out the installer will cancel with an error. Before you proceed, make sure again you use the right installer for your version. You see the version inside the folder name: zcs-8.6.0_GA_1153.UBUNTU14_64.20141215151116.
You don't have to used the very recent version at all times (though it is a good idea) but at least you should make sure that your OS and your Zimbra installation are within their support lifetime.
In this example I use my configuration. Again: I wanted to upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 to 14.04 and Zimbra 8.0.5 to 8.6.
You need to install all dependencies for your Zimbra installation, in my case it was libperl5.18, but if you don't already have it installed it will ask for unzip etc. Don't worry, the installer will inform you about what is missing, just follow the next steps and if the installer cancels due to missing dependencies just install them and continue.
I found a guide on the Zimbra site that was ok but was lacking some parts (https://wiki.zimbra.com/wiki/Ubuntu_Upgrades).
Snapshots can not only be used for having an additional and easy to use fallback point in case an update/upgrade goes wrong but also provide for easier backups:
In my case, there was no installer for Zimbra 8.0.5 on Ubuntu 14.04, but there was a 8.6 installer for Ubuntu 12.04. It doesn't matter if you upgrade Zimbra or your OS first, but it does matter that you install the same Zimbra version on both your old and your new OS. You can upgrade after you installed your old Zimbra version on your new OS but you CAN NOT upgrade your OS and Zimbra at the same time.
During the upgrade, Ubuntu will ask you multiple times if you want to keep your current configuration. ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS DO THAT aka select Default answer (N)
I've recently had some problems regarding upgrading Zimbra while also upgrading my OS at the same time. To be more specific: I wanted to upgrade Zimbra Open Source Edition from 8.0.5 to 8.6 and at the same time upgrade Ubuntu Server from 12.04 to 14.04. The problem I encountered was that I couldn't get it to work, Zimbra threw a lot of Perl-related exceptions and since the Zimbra forum isn't very communicative I had to reroll to my backup to be up and running after the weekend again.
Have a complete backup of your whole /opt/zimbra folder and ALWAYS keep a copy of the Zimbra installer for the version and OS you use. In case your server crashes you can restore your whole Zimbra installation with the folder and the installer.
Here comes the tricky part. In my case I screwed up and started with upgrading Ubuntu 12.04 to Ubuntu 14.04. Then I tried to install Zimbra 8.6 over my current 8.0.5 and toasted my installation because I became cocky and ignored version checking.
Zimbra won't work now, don't panic. This is due to the fact that you have Zimbra 8.6 for Ubuntu 12.04 which doesn't work with Ubuntu 14.04. If you didn't do it by now, download the same Zimbra version (in this case 8.6) you had on your old system but this time for the new version:
Just download the 8.6 archive, unpack it and install. You don't have to stop zimbra first, the installer will do so automatically.
The trick is that you have to install the exact same version of Zimbra on your upgraded OS than you had on your old one. In my case there wasn't even an installer for Ubuntu 14.04 so basically I could only roll back to my Snapshot and start again.