Recently I had to remote access a windows server from my Ubuntu, the existing answers in here didn't work for me, but installing Remmina worked fine
With Ubuntu, tsclient is installed by default. To verify it is installed simply enter the following command in a Terminal window:
tsclient is a GNOME program for remotely accessing Microsoft Windows NT/2000/2003 Terminal Services and XP Remote Desktop Sharing over RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol).
Although, IMHO The best way to manage Windows / Linux shares is using Samba from the Linux environment and connect that direction each time, it will be much more friendly.
Replace the xs' with the IP address of the Windows server. If you are running a firewall, you need to keep Samba ports open for outgoing connections.
If tsclient is not installed, you can install it by executing the following command from a Terminal window:
Now that tsclient is installed, you can easily open tsclient by typing tsclient at the Terminal prompt (yes it looks exactly as the Terminal Server client on Windows!)
Just as you can save configuration settings on a Windows Terminal Server Client, the same can done with tsclient by setting options in the Dislpay, Local Resources, Programs, or Performance tabs. Once the settings have been configured, you can save it as a file and open it when you need to connect to the server.
In Linux there are a couple ways to either connect one time or permanently connect each time you're logged on. In File Browser you can use the menu item File -> Connect To Server and choose Windows Share and input the path to your windows share. Or you could edit /etc/fstab with the correct file system mount point and it would reconnect or remap your share each time you logon.
Once you have saved the settings to a file, you can quickly connect to a Windows Computer from a Terminal window instead of running tsclient from the GUI. To see the tsclient command prompt options, type:
As a System Administrator or home user, connecting to Windows Computers from Ubuntu with just file sharing is all that may be needed. Other times, there is a need to remotely access Windows Computers to perform more complex tasks. With Windows, you can easily connect to another Windows Computer running Terminal Services with a Terminal Server client. On Ubuntu, you can also access any Windows Computer using tsclient.
To quickly connect to a Windows Computer, just enter the hostname in the Computer field and click Connect at the bottom of tsclient.