I'd wait a couple of weeks at least to see what the reaction was. With Betas and Release Candidates people might be more forgiving in their assessment. Coupled with this is the fact that people won't really using it on a daily basis for "real" computing. So reports of reliability and usability might be skewed. Beta and RC users tend to be the more tech savvy users with spare machines and be prepared to rebuild those machines at a moments' notice.
I'd say, if any of those are not true for you, you probably shouldn't upgrade immediately; instead, wait until the general population has had their hands on it for at least a couple weeks.
Generally you're best waiting for a few months for consumer OS, the noise flying around Snow-Leopard confirms this.
I usually install new releases of Mac OS X as soon as they come out (I do software development, so I like to be on the cutting edge with OS updates), but I have a few things going in my favor in my case:
You'll also be able to see how many bugs have been reported and how many patches have been released.
Unless you're developing software for release in 6-12 months (as your software will need to be able to run on Windows 7) you'd be better off waiting.
If your running Vista you'll be better off upgrading to 7.  If your running XP or something else, check the system requirements first.
When you've got the views of more "everyday" users you should be able to get a better idea of what the OS will be like for you.
Generally, I'd advise against it, in the case of XP/Vista/7 I'd say jump on the band-wagon, XP is too old, and other people have too many issues with Vista - 7 is perfectly capable for day-to day stuff.
Many people prefer waiting for the first service pack before using an O/S, just in case, if they can afford to wait.
The exception is probably the Linux family, if you wait 6 months for Ubuntu, the next version will be out. If you're running FOSS, just sit on the latest stable release, don't get behind.
2) Microsoft has had Windows 7 out for the public for quite a while, so developers have already been making all drivers and software ready for 7 for months. Plus Vista code still runs on 7.
Specifically in terms of Windows 7.  You'll most likely find the most stable 1st realese of an OS Microsoft has ever produced.