By Web: If you are on vacation but have access to an internet connected laptop, just log into the Twitter website and issue commands (e.g., shutdown or logoff) just as another tweet.
I haven't give a try to this but according to the feedback of users I think this will worth for you. In article How to Remote Control your Windows PC with Email or SMS I found a software TweetMyPC which is claiming to do some magic for your PC.  
Standby, Hibernate: Don’t want to shutdown the remote PC? Save power by entering standby mode with this command. Or hibernate your PC with a tweet, thereby saving even more power.
ShutDown, LogOff, Reboot, Lock: The function of these useful commands is pretty obvious from their names.
This should not be many lines of code to do by yourself (could likely be done in the order of 10-20 lines). The investigation will probably mostly be to find out the correct AT commands, but if you are in luck, you can find them on Google.
While the TweetMyPC is pretty good for shutting down a remote computer, it lets you do some more awesome stuff as well. For instance, you need to download an unfinished presentation from the office computer so that you can work on it at home.
If you like this path and want to find out more, start by using minicom or some other serial console program to probe your phone and what commands are available for it.
By IM: Add the Twitter bot – twitter@twitter.com – to your list of Google Talk buddies and you can then send commands via instant message.
The large generic programs that communicate with phones almost exclusively use AT commands and translation tables for different phones.
GetFile : The Download command was for downloading files from the Internet onto the remote computer. However, if you like to transfer a file from the remote computer to your current computer, use the GetFile command. It takes the full page of the file that you want to download and will send that you as an email attachment. If you don’t know the file page, use the command GetFileList <drivename> to get a list of file folders on that drive.
Download : You can download any file from the Internet on to the remote computer using the download command. For instance, a command like download http://bit.ly/tCJ9Y will download the CIA Handbook so you have the document ready when you resume work the next day.
By Email: Associate you Twitter account with Posterous (auto-post) and all email messages sent to twitter@posterous.com will therefore become commands for the remote computer.
Phones with modems respond to AT commands over a serial port (at least I haven't seen a model that doesn't). When connected to the computer via USB, it opens a serial port to which you can connect e.g. with a Perl script using the Device::SerialPort module to listen for new messages (I'm sure similar modules exist for Python/etc). When a new message signal is given, read the latest message and then act on its contents.
By SMS: If you live in US, UK, Canada, India, Germany, Sweden or New Zeleand, you can send associate Twitter with your mobile phone (see list of numbers) and then control your remote computer via SMS Text Messages.
Screenshot: This is one of the most useful command I’ve come across after the shutdown command. Want to know what’s happening within the confines of your PC when you’re not around? Just tweet screenshot and TweetMyPC will take a screenshot of your desktop and post it to the web (see example).
Here’s a partial list of commands that you can use to remote control the PC – they’re case-insensitive and, as discussed above, you can send them to Twitter via email, SMS, IM or the web.  
GetProcessList: This is like a remote task manager. You’ll get a list of programs that are currently running on the remote computer along with their process IDs. Send another command kill <process id> to terminate any program that you think is suspicious or not required.
I haven't tried this myself, but it might be possible to use something like pygooglevoice to receive text messages sent to a Google Voice number (assuming you have one, or can get one). Then your script would implement a command processor that interprets the content of the text message.