You really need to ask yourself or management how critical it is that these servers remain available if an ISP or a piece of network equipment fails.  If it's not overkill and it's really necessary, one way to go might be to so something like I've done.
Or you can have a pair of firewall devices that have all of this self contained.  It can get pretty extensive, but if you really need it, it's really a solid way to go.
Once you have redundant ISPs, you should have two routers that share an IP address (look up HSRP) in a standby/failover config, each router connected to one ISP.  With HSRP, if one router fails, traffic will run over the other - the will share one of your assigned public addresses.
Ask one of your ISPs to allocate you an IPv4 /24 block (the smallest possible).  You will pay a monthly fee for this, but then it will be assigned for your needs as long as you stay with the ISP.  You will need at least one business class router or routing firewall appliance that can handle BGP.  Most of the dedicated routers can as well as some of the firewall appliances.  Consumer grade equipment cannot.
I agree with @artem_d93 that BGP is the most appropriate solution.  With BGP, when one path fails, re-convergence occurs and a new path (over the alternate ISP) is presented to network traffic.  This can take several minutes to occur.  
Once you have a block assigned, you will need to get an ASN from RIPE.  This Autonomous System Number will allow you to be a unique node on the internet.  
If you really must host these webservers yourself then the solution is to host the DNS for your domains, possibly using CNAME records if you need to.  You control the IP address used to contact the servers at any moment in time.  You may need to buy some sort of DNS appliance or load-balancer to do this, or maybe just multiple use DNS views on a single DNS server.  It just depends on your business need and budget.  Good resilience is expensive and you need to analyse what risks you are protecting against and ensure that in increasing the complexity you are not creating extra technical and/or operational risks.  The details of this solution are off-topic here.
I have two Cisco 4431 routers for each ISP, each connected directly to the other, sharing a standby (HSRP) address.  These connect to a pair of DMZ switches that are port channeled together (not a stack as a stack could fail).  Then have two ASA 5515X that are connected so they share state and failover.  Then on to two Nexus 5548UP switches at my network core.  This is a fully redundant setup so if there is a failure anywhere along the line, we will keep running.  Our IPv4 and IPv6 blocks are used for addresses between the ASA 5515x and ISR4431 routers.  I also have a dedicated WAN router (that has other one off connections) connected back to my core as well as to the 4431 routers 
Between the previously mentioned routers and your private network, you should have a (or a pair) of firewall devices.  And perhaps a pair of DMZ switches.  With all of this interconnected, you can have a fully redundant internet connection.
However, unless you have ambitions to grow into a hosting centre business, I can't see why you wouldn't just stick the webservers in the cloud and relieve yourself of this sort of network problem.
Unfortunately BGP will not help you, this is small-scale.  You will not be able to justify a provider-independent block of addresses for a single web server even if RIPE is still issuing them.  Without a large enough address block, no ISP can advertise your PI address block anyway.