The condition was finally resolved after a lengthy tech support process with Dell where it was confirmed that while these cards' part numbers were officially discontinued, the actual design of the card was the same as another that was currently available. Something to do with their supply chain requiring part number changes if I remember correctly.
So cables were ordered which were known to be compatible with the equivalent part, and by the time they arrived the network layout had changed such that linux 2.6.32-2 would be providing the driver rather than Windows, and now all works flawlessly.
I'm not certain what to do next, I don't want to have to buy a switch to go between, plus another cable- it seems very expensive just to make a single fast link.
I saw this relatively cheap switch on eBay, (Item number: 370424159424) and considered buying that to see if the problem has to do with the cable not being a 'crossover' cable per se.
I'm hesitant to do that since the description mentions it having SFP ports, rather than SFP+ ports, and I'm not sure of the ramifications of mixing these, since I'm early in the learning curve of 10GB.
I would try, on Windows, to start by forcing the speed to 10 Mb, then - if it works - increase gradually.
It might be something simple... or quite complex.  Simple solutions include: unable to auto-negotiate speed... so force select port speed.  You might have the tx fiber going to tx on the other side... try reversing them.  (you need tx going to rx and rx going to tx)  Are the optic cable ends dirty?  a spec of dust can cause you a long list of headaches.  
10 Gb is a pretty high bandwidth. If you trust your cables, that are not cross cables, then it could be that the switch cannot accommodate the speed / the auto-negotiation protocol from the Windows NIC.
You may also have a defective port on the switch, or a wrong setting - try to change the switch port.
The drivers for the NIC are current, downloaded from Intel- it's settings are defaults, although I did set an IP address once to see if it helped, and it didn't.
More complex problems & solutions... Make sure that both cards are using the same light frequency & signaling scheme.  i.e. R, SR, LR, LRM, ER, ZR, LX4, (don't mix & match... it won't work) and also make sure that you are using cables that meet with your requirements.  i.e. multi-mode vs single-mode.  Some cards require one or the other due to cheaper lasers & such.  It also never hurts to get in touch with your vendor & find out what they would recommend.
On the flip-side of what ramruma has presented, have you tried hard coding the line settings on at least one side - just in case it is an auto-negotiation incompatibility issue?
I found this information helpful from Intel.com regarding which SFP+ cables will work with that card: www.intel.com/support/network/adapter/10gbe/afdadualserver/sb/CS-029097.htm
The cards I'm using are both the same, hybrid Dell / Intel. Dell Part Numbers T645H, Intel Models 82598.
I'm having a problem with a couple 10GB NICs, one in particular in Windows 7 x64 that always thinks the cable is missing.
Also, if you can access your switch via serial or another computer, and if a web (...) interface is available, try to see and edit the settings, view the logs.
And I wasn't able to replace the OS with a Windows installation even temporarily to see if the new cables worked with those drivers, I'm just glad it works in linux.
It mentions the cables have to comply with certain specifications to function properly, and according to the product page for the cable I have, they match and should be working.