Note: If you don't agree with my statement, that the berserk does attack the target that hurt him, you could change that so, that the berserk attacks the nearest character. This would be interesting, if he got attacked from a distance. (For a sword-fighter it would be the same.)    
I'm looking for a way to create a convincing Berserker enemy in a Roguelike I've been creating for some time. You may assume a game like NetHack for this when considering what kinds of actions can be taken and text messages that can be alerted.
I've tried 3 different ideas over the last year. And none of them satisfy. A solution to the problem could be all new, or a 'fix' for one of these. I am mainly including them to get the juices flowing.
When I say Berserker I mean an enemy that can swing into a blind rage and attack other entities that it is in conflict with with violence and bloodlust. Not simply switching to attacking targets randomly, as is done in many RPGs. To this end, feel free to assume the addition of any status effects or buffs you wish. Just make sure you detail the pertinent information for those states.
A berserk entity needs to express his rage in a way that isn't simply a status change with some strength increases. This is a very shallow solution to the problem. The entity doesn't end up feeling like a Berserker at all.
I realize this is a borderline list question. So I impose these requirements: It must be a very detailed complete answer that shows all the states and conditions for transitioning. And it must be more than a guess. You should test this in your own roguelike, or it should otherwise be obvious why this is a probable 'best' solution at getting the idea of Berserk status across.
The player meets the enemy. a) Player deals multiple-times small damage (the enemy fights back, but does not go berserk), b) Player deals big damage, the enemy loses a lot of health, but goes berserk. The player must now flee. While fleeing he can a) deal further damage, b) slow the berserk. If a) the enemy stays berserk or dies. If b) the enemy calms down (slowing him, does not deal critical damage). When he's calmed down, you can attack him again critically. Maybe he dies now :-) 