In a production environment, you would probably have a few spare replacements on hand, and you probably would want the system to remain under power and online with a possible short scheduled downtime.
In your case, the drives are small, and the rebuild time for 1 drive will be low (compared to much larger drives).
One of the advantages of Raid 6 over Raid 5 is that if one drive has failed, and a second drive fails while rebuilding a replacement for the failed drive, Raid 6 will survive this. It would be catastrophic if that happens with Raid 5.
The nice thing about a hand me down server is you can experiment with different configurations and see what performs the best and what you think will work best.  I have a old server with 12 drives in various types of RAID for that very purpose.
If you're using Windows of some sort, make sure to align your partitions or dynamic volumes.  Other than that, I agree with previous answers:  RAID10 for write perf, RAID6 for efficiency. 
On the other hand, if you'll want to keep the system powered up, or if you just feel better about the additional fault tolerance of Raid 6, and you won't miss the loss of some drive space, then I'd go with Raid 6.
What raid level you pick should really depend on how much storage you need, and how much performance you need. 
Personally, if you don't need more than 200gb for the repository and sql data then i'd use raid10, it'll be more redundant and perform better. If you need more space then go with raid5 (raid6 will only get you 72 more gb than raid10)
Mirror the two 18GB drives for the OS.  Then use RAID-5 or RAID-6 for the other six drives.  Your choice is really about redundancy.  I doubt you're going to max the performance of the array.  
So, in your case, in case of a drive failure, if you can manage to power down the system until you are ready to rebuild the replacement drive, then Raid 6 has little advantage over Raid 5. Further, considering Raid 6 will lose the space of an additional drive to parity, and has slower write times, Raid 5 will probably be your best choice.
If you did do a RAID-10, you could lose up to 3 drive (one from each mirrored pair) but I don't think that's worth it for what you're doing.  I'd just go with RAID-5, personally.
Will you need to continue to use the system during that time, or can you power everything down while you wait?