I work at a Fortune 25 Company here in the US. I do application package - This answer is probably a little late though - We require all application to be self installing so we can push them to user work station silently via Altiris. While we prefer all software installers in MSI format this is not always the case, I will use EXE installers if they can run silently via command line or setup.iss file. If not then they will get repackaged to MSI format.
The MSI packages are so that they can push out the updates through SCCM or other means. Manually pushing out updates or creating is frankly stupid, unless you work with a trivial number of systems - you would need to log into each system, and do it, while not getting in the way of the user.. It also means a single point of failure and its harder to track down bugs
There's of course the possibility this is being imposed on them, and they arn't really happy about the whole thing and having to maintain a bit of special purpose software developed by some outsider...
Your type of package would take less than 1 hour to put in MSI & Compile it via Wise Package Studio. Assuming its 1 file & 1 shortcut. It would actually take longer to test & get sign off than actually package it. All packages(Applications) are peer review & tested by the App Requester(app owner).
We have a few apps that are frequently update, like every few weeks or so. Since this would require allot of time to rebuild in MSI & Test every few weeks- we switch these to update themselves. We set these up to run a vb script as the shortcut, the 1st thing the vb script does is query a predefined network share & check the file date/version there against local copy. If network has newer version - than its copied. The the EXE file is ran - simple self updating.
I do believe while there's a time cost, and its non trivial (that is to say there may be some work involved - especially where there isn't an IDE involved that can hook into installer creation), I rather doubt it would cost 20,000 dollars to do - you might want to take a look at wix to better understand the process.