The newer GPT disk format supports many more partitions — technically unlimited, I think, but operating systems impose a limit of 128.  These are all "primary" partitions (to use the MBR terminology).
Hard disks can be split into four primary partitions, or one of these can be configured as an extended partition.
When Windows sees this EFI partition, it counts as 1 primary. So 2 partition in GPT means 4. This is a sad limitation for Windows when testing a new build using GPT scheme.
An extended partition can theoretically contain an infinite number of logical partitions, and so while Windows only has drive letters up to z: (plus some other characters) this is not a limit on the number of partitions you can create, even if you can't assign a drive letter to them.
On a disk using the traditional MBR format, the partition table has four slots.  Each can hold a "primary" partition, or one can be used to create an "extended" partition which can contain any number of sub-partitions (often called "logical drives").  Extended partitions are basically a workaround for the small size of the MBR partition table, and there are limitations on what they can be used for.  (For example, the Windows bootloader must be on a primary partition.)
So no there is no hard limit on Windows on the number of drivers.  Drive letter are of course limited, since they stop at Z.  But drives don't have to be given a drive letter - they can be mapped to a folder on another drive.  From the same Technet article:
Loosely called as "partitions", means 4 paritions. However, any one of these 4 partitions, ie one and only one of them can be extended further into "partitions" or logical drives. In summary, it is said as 3 primary partitons and one "extendable" partition. The "extendable" partition as logical drive can only go with the letters a to z. As the alphabet a and b are used for floppy drives, only c to z is available for use.
If the drive is partitioned using GPT, windows can only handle 2 for the following reason. When GPT is employed, each primary partition has another hidden partition to go with it called EFI.