I suspect that they're deploying the latest version of their code, which requires that they restart the application (and hopefully running some tests before re-enabling access). From that point of view, it's more of a StackOverflow problem and less of a ServerFault one.
I suspect that the total time that Blizzard (I'm inferring that given that it's a Tuesday morning that you're posting your question) quotes for maintenance is for the entire cluster; not every server takes that long to perform work on.
A simple upgrade of hardware (or hardware replacement) is also presented as "server maintenance" by MMORPG games. So trivial we often forget about it.
Another solution is to use a language which is designed for 100% uptime and has built-in capabilties for hotpatching running code. Erlang is a good choice (hotpatching example), and Java has similar functionality.
As to why they perform the maintenance, some of it might just be a performance reboot.  While it would be great if such reboots weren't required, the cost of doing so vs the impact of not doing so may be directing their choice here.
I think it's possible to create a hot-patching system, but it would necessarily be incredibly complicated. From what I understand, an MMO server "application" consists of several different components --
presumably something you couldn't deal with via clustering/load-balancing such as major DB schema changes.
All of the above cases add an incredible amount of complexity to an already complex system and introduce a bunch of places where a code failure can cause data loss or corruption.
When you look at why they can't cluster the processes and perform rolling maintenance, what little people know of the WoW infrastructure suggests that multiple machines provide service for each realm (i.e. one for the world, one for instances and raids, one for battlegrounds, etc.) they don't use a state-shared active-active process setup.  There isn't sharing of live state, only of persistent data via a database.
While it might be possible to bring individual servers back up more quickly, that would illicit cries of favouritism towards players whose realms happened to fall earlier in the schedule.  As such, they keep everything down until all the work is done; with hundreds of realms to work on, they probably do much of the work in parallel, but still serialize a final check before bringing things back online.  If you're doing a hardware upgrade, this is probably serialized across as many data centres as they have.
In the end, the mechanics of providing a stateful online service to that large a subscriber base challenges some of the best practices that we might espouse when talking about a website or other traditional internet-based service.
It seems that most mmorpg games have some regular server maintenance, some every day, some once a week. What is it that they actually have to do, and why is it necessary ? 