the most important aspect is the license. Looking at the inclusion of busybox on WLAN routers and following legal actions, companies think "open source = do whatever you like".
Consistently bad interface design - I don't just mean the GUI. Crazy, unidentified, or mislabeled CLI flags or options drive me insane
It's the root of several forks - If something has been forked many times over, there's probably a good reason for it, and one of the forks has probably solved the problem better than the source did. Investigate those instead.
I'd look mainly at maturity and activity. If it appears reasonably mature and there seems to be a decent amount of activity (forum or wiki activity for instance) then I can feel pretty comfortable. Then I know that there's a good chance that bugs will be solved and that I can get help with issues that arise. I'd choose an active project that doesn't match my needs perfectly, over a project that seems like a perfect match but appears dead, any day of the week.
No one uses it - Or at least, Google can't find anyone talking about it. It's either brand new (in which case, you're a guinea pig) or so bad that everyone knows better
On Linux, I would check to see what software is packed by your distro.  Packaged software is not limited to just just opensource/GPL - Ubuntu, Gentoo and SLES at minimum include proprietry software in their package lists.  While there is no guarantee that these packages will work as effectively as the core software in the distro - someone has invested time and effort to prepare a package.
It doesn't work - or it pretends that a situation that needs to be solved shouldn't (or doesn't) exist, and therefore doesn't address it
I am also looking for the date last updated and an active community, so forum, maybe other pages that have the software as topic.
When it comes to maturity it pretty much depends on the intended use. If it's something that I need to roll out instantly and that cannot be allowed to fail or cause trouble, maturity will obviously be a pretty important factor. If I can live with a few quirks and it's not critical with some downtime, then I'd rather look at the future outlook.
Deceptive Licensing - Too many solutions are trying to nickel and dime me to death. The package costs X, but if you want advertised options 1, 2, and 3, that'll be $500-1500 more per option. No thank you. 
I would also add that the code churn rate is consistant and done by many people, not just a few. You don't want one person cranking out code part-time when he gets excited about his project then gets bored of it and leaves it up for community to continue to support. Drupal and Joomla are two good examples.