If it still passes i would consider it OK, and good if it does not go under 12.8 V under the same load conditions.
The only sure way to test the batteries is with a designated tester.  These devices are not cheap.  The meter injects high frequency ac current into the battery and measures the internal resistance.  This reading is compared to a chart for standard sizes or to a known good battery reading.  Google for industrial test equipment, battery tester, for more information.
A simple voltage test is far from conclusive.  Rather it is equivalent to taking your temperature to see if you are sick.  Temperature doesn't show all cases of sickness, but it is more than useful enough as first diagnostic.
Looking through my UPSs, it seems some use 12 volt batteries (6 cells in a case) and 24 volts (12 cells).  The one which has been sitting unused for over a year is a 12 volt and shows 11.3 volts.  That would indicate it is in fair condition, but certainly not new (I recall the charge controller had issues, not the battery).
A simple $20 voltmeter will give a reasonably good indication, especially if the batteries have never been used.  A lead acid battery should quiescently show 2.0 volts per cell.  If the cells have failed, they readily show less than 1.0 volts per cell.  For other battery technologies, other voltages apply.
Any auto or motorcycle battery charger will work (set it on a low amperage charging) and charge the battery for 8 hours or so.  I don't trust the cheap circuitry they sometimes put in there to tell you if the battery is good.  After a good charge time, check the voltage across the battery and if its anything less that 12.0 volts,  the battery is just plain no good.
If the voltage is over 10.5 V i first charge is to full. Then i measure the voltage under load, say 10A for a 20 Ah battery, if it goes below 12.5 Volts I would consider in sulfated and use a desulphator for a period of time on it. 
For a more thorough battery test, a suitable battery load tester is useful.  While inexpensive load testers are sold for car batteries, those use far too large a load  for a UPS battery.  Something in the 2 to 10 amp range would be more suitable, unless it is a mainframe-class UPS.  You could MacGyver a small load, like a car headlamp in tandem with the voltmeter.  Look at the battery voltage, enable the load.  The voltage should drop a little, like 5% to 15%.  A weak battery's voltage will plunge more than 30%.
I first measure the voltage without load, if it's below 10.5 V for a 12V battery it usually means that a cell has reverted or shorted meaning that it is probably dead.