however for benefit of reducing the risk of spam mail coming from that domain setting the spf record of
I didn't add the rua= and ruf= because in this situation there shouldn't be any false positives to be fixed. If you are curious enough to collect data on how much this domain is used for spoofing, you can add e.g. 
If you have the time, it would be best to have SPF records on all your domains, even if it's just the fail all record. If you don't, then add an SPF record only to those domains that you do send mail from.
If a spammer fakes your domain or IP, the SPF record will help minimize the damage--and signing with DKIM would do even better--but there's nothing at present that will completely prevent there being some damage to your domain reputation. You just have to be ready to repair it by contacting any ISPs that might block your mail as a result--which I must say is very unlikely unless someone is specifically targeting you. (There are delivery consultants out there who can help with the repairing, too.)
No, you don't need it. If you aren't running an SMTP server, no spammer can contact your server. But you could leave it, so others can check your domain records when deciding if they deal with spam. 
If you don't intend to send mail from this domain, why let anyone else to use it as they wish? But things have changed since this question was asked eight yeas ago. SPF can only protect your domain from being used as the envelope sender, but it can't protect the From: header.
Even though domain reputation is becoming more important, many ISPs still block mail based on IP addresses. They also block mail containing domains (not just from, but having the domain anywhere in the email) with poor reputations. So the answer is yes, having domainA blocked can affect domainB if they send through the same IP address or domainA is contained in mail sent from domainB.
It is a best practice to have a "does not send" SPF record (i.e. "v=spf1 -all") on every HOST within a domain that doesn't otherwise have a different SPF record -- as well as for the domain itself plus any non-host label in the domain that has MX or SMTP-service-SRV records.  The idea is to permit detection that the host-part of a sending mailbox is forged, and for those idiots that don't check others' SPF records, that you have protected all possible labels in your domain that could be backscatter targets.