In case of privacy alone, just maybe... but it still has other uses like bypassing geo-restrictions and unblocking websites and all... so i guess a vpn serves a purpose greater than just offering privacy.
Some of these may be less of an issue in a v6 world but I expect that VPNs will still be useful in general and will likely remain a good solution for administering remote devices.
The point of a VPN (Virtual Private Network) is to give your traffic privacy while in transit, although it can fix some of the problems inherent with IPv4 NAT, but fixing those problems is not the real purpose of a VPN. You can use a VPN with IPv6 for the real reason of a VPN: privacy.
One of the functions of the VPN is to give you control over your numbering and routing, which can be very useful to give, amongst other things, independence from the ISP.  The pre-eminent way to insulate against addressing changes is of course DNS, but VPNs are another which suit some network requirements.
Supposing the IPv6 ISP assigns a "Global Unicast Address. This, by definition, is globally-routable. There is no NAT." ... Even if it gives you a completely static allocation, perhaps based on the IMEI or similar of the calling device, there is no reason to assume it will actually route it under the conditions that suit you.
I think your idea that consumer and mobile ISPs will give out static IPv6 is optimistic to say the least. Some may do so but many probably will not.
The primary point of IPv6 is that it restores the original idea of every device having a unique IP address, which restores the end-to-end concept of IP. NAT is a kludge to extend the life of IPv4 until IPv6 can become ubiquitous.
IPv6 does have, built into it, a way to encrypt traffic on the wire. Unfortunately, it is poorly supported in the way it was intended, although OSPFv3 uses it. The intention was to not need a VPN wrapper around the IPv6 packets, but to move that inside the IPv6 packets. With the current environment of both IPv4 and IPv6, it is much simpler to have one way to encrypt your traffic.