I think the cacophony effect comes from the sounds that are long. In mario  kart for example, the drifting sound volume is very low compared to the sound when an item is picked. The game sound may sound messy, but it isn't so much considering the sounds that are played. It could have easily been unlistenable.
If the screen is split in the vertical way you can manage the different sounds to be played on the side of the proper player. It has been described here(Use Case 1). 
In this example the sounds are attenuated by -96dB on the other side, which is equivalent to muting. (If my calculus are right, -96.3dB is like dividing by 15 million). I think it doesn't have to be so brutal. If you play each sound mostly on the side of the player who is supposed to hear them, the players will be able to distinguish a sound coming from their half or not and there will still be a bit of stereo.
In this thread they all agree that the sounds should be played once in total (not once for every player) relative to the most concerned player, the closest for example.
You have to make sacrifices, you cannot have the same immersion when some sounds aren't supposed to be heard by all the players. Some engines have built in solutions to this problem (example) but I couldn't find any information about the way it works.
This works the best when there are only two players, but in case of 4 players you can combine the sounds from the players vertically to use the same method. 
Therefore the solution might be to filter out the long or repeated very often sounds. By attenuating the general noise, the important sounds will be easier to distinguish. I don't think it is a problem for a player to hear sounds that he isn't supposed to hear as long as he can easily hear the sounds that are important to him.
I don't know him but he makes a unity plugin to handle split screen audio. He explains the method he would use on one of his post. I don't know if it is a valid approach since I don't understand most of it.