Full disclosure: I run my own LISP based ISP in The Netherlands, so I am biased. LISP is still a cool protocol though :-)
You may have to put a static route for 8.8.8.8 over ISP1 to make it always exit out that path. Obviously if you really use 8.8.8.8 choose another IP because otherwise you won't have reachability to it if ISP1 goes down.
You might want to investigate if there is a LISP provider available. LISP is a protocol that can make a site independent from the upstream ISPs it connects to. You get one or more IP addresses from the LISP ISP and they route them to wherever you are connected. It is a tunnelling technique, but with a lot of cool features. You can control both inbound and outbound load balancing over the links, you can do IPv6 multihoming without having to resort to hacks like NPT66 (prefix translation). You could even move to the other side of the planet without changing IP addresses ;-)
I've used OpenWRT with Multiwan (http://wiki.openwrt.org/doc/uci/multiwan) for some time at home to multihome between my DSL and Cable ISP. It worked quite nicely. I wouldn't advice it as a corporate solution, but it's ok for SOHO and home setups.
The disadvantage is that you'll incur additional cpu, storage and bandwidth costs for the remote server.
What kind of equipment do you have connecting to the providers? If it is a Cisco device you could use IP SLA to ping a destination like 8.8.8.8 over the primary ISP. As soon as you don't get a reply failover to the other static route. Example config:
What I have found is that a small number of web apps do not work when you are multihomed. The web apps are usually financial sites, like banks. For some reason, web app programmers sometimes think it is OK to test security on the basis of IP address. For users who need this access, you can reserve an IP address for their computer, and create a "LAN rule" in pfSense to always use a certain gateway and not the other for that IP address. 
Q2. There is no reason why multihoming wouldn't work in IPv6 as well as IPv4. That said, pfSense does not have a fully-supported release that properly handles IPv6. The current version of pfSense is 2.0x. Once 2.1 is released, pfSense will have good IPv6 support and will include multihoming.
You could setup a remote server/VPS in a reliable data center and then you could setup VPN tunnels from your router to the remote server over each ISP. Now your router at home could route packets over these tunnels based on a bandwidth ratio, and then the remote server can route the traffic between the rest of the internet. 
Q1. You can install a router/firewall that supports multihoming. In terms of free software, pfSense fits the bill. http://www.pfsense.org/. The pfSense docs refer to this as Multi-WAN. http://doc.pfsense.org/index.php/Multi-WAN_2.0
I use LISP myself and my office network has a block of /26 IPv4 and a /48 block of IPv6 addresses that are independent of the upstreams (a UPC cable connection with one dynamic IPv4 address and a Solcon DSL connection with both a static IPv4 address and a static block of IPv6 addresses). A Cisco 1841 runs LISP in the office and uses whatever link is available to connect to the rest of the Internet. As long as one link works my office is connected using its own addresses.
The advantage is that you can use the entire bandwidth provided by both the providers while still having a fail over option for reliability. 