You can change default device as well as default communication device to headphones. That should take care of it.
I never had this problem until recently.  I plug an external speaker in through the headphone jack and the sound remains coming out of the internal laptop speakers.  Aggravating when trying to watch a movie.  I would reinstall the IDT driver from HP and it would work after a reboot.  That takes a lot of time when what one intended to do was start watching a movie.
I think that you're telling the computer to only use the headphone for communications applications. When the headphones are plugged into the jack, the logic still outputs sound from applications like WMP and youTube to the speakers, because the headphone jack is reserved for communications applications like VoIP. I think that if you disable the headphones, the sound will play through the jack (and therefore the headphones) because the OS will release the jack to any sound playing app, not just communications...that's my theory. 
Today I stopped the Windows Audio Service.  Then I stopped the Windows Audio Endpoint Builder Service.  Then I restarted the Windows Audio Endpoint Builder Service followed by restarting the Windows Audio Service.
One other option to check...  I use a IBM/Lenovo laptop, and I was getting a similar problem on my system where certain apps would play in the headphones and others would go through the built in speakers; even if the headphones were plugged in.  The internal sound card in my laptop is provided by Conexant.  I found that outside of the standard Microsoft "Audio" control panel, Conexant also provided another control panel called "Smart Audio" that I hadn't noticed before.  Upon reviewing that control panel, there was a "Audio Director" setting labeled as "Classic" or "Multi-Stream".  Mine was set to Multi-Stream, so it allowed some audio to go to the internal speakers, and some to my headphones, but when I set it back to Classic, all the audio moved to the headphones when they are present.  I think that's what your looking for.  You might see if HP has a similar software driver that is allowing Multi-Stream audio on your system.  Hope that helps!
Second, you can right click on the speakers in the audio settings and select disable. This will force the audio to your headphones. Note: you will have to reverse this change when you are done.
First, have you checked your Skype audio settings? Skype has the final say as to where its audio/video feeds go. This is so that you can set your system audio to your speakers, such as a game or video, but have a Skype call sent to the headphones so that it remains private and doesn't affect the other applications.