Build a notepad file of any number or character (1-0 a-z) so it is around a gig in size.  Then save it anywhere on the drive. Now make copies of this file until you have filled the hard drive up.  delete all the copies and the original. this would make the hard drive almost impossible to recover as all the tracks would be filled with the data you had saved.  Slow but effective.
There are many theories about how effective multiple wipes are, (some even go as far as reccomending 35 wipes!!) but generally a one pass wipe is good enough. 
Due to Privacy laws these days, organisations are paranoid about having their information leak into the open, since they can face litigation and fines. That is contributing to the sensitivity around disk wiping standards.  
Why do disk wiping tools have the option for multiple passes, i.e. 3 or 5, even 7 and different methods?  Surely the first pass does the job?
Unless you are an organisation which has to protect confidential client information, IP or other proprietary information, and a potential target of hackers who may want to steal or misuse such data, then you really dont need to consider very high levels of data security. 
For your pron stash that you don't want Mom to find: Delete the file, overwrite all free space with zeros (sdelete will do the job). To my knowledge, no one has EVER demonstrated the ability to recover data from a normal hard disk after an over-write of any kind. The theoretical possibility is there, but no one's shown it can be done. Even if it can, it's going to be monstrously expensive and slow, and probably can't recover all desired data.
Destroying the disk by bending it, breaking the disk plates (using a hammer) or drilling holes through it is a good way to safeguard your personal data but it depends on whether you want to use the disk again. Also, if you are disposing of your old machine by resale, without a disk you may realise up to a 40% reduction in value(depending on the machine).
If it's worth millions of dollars, or if people are going to die if the info is revealed, take the drive apart and sand-blast the magnetic media off of the disk surface (don't forget proper air filtering - some of that stuff might be nasty). Congratulations - the data can't be recovered. If you happen to have access to foundry that does aluminum, you could always toss the platters into the next batch (the platters are often aluminum with magnetic oxide coatings). By melting the platters, you again free up the magnetic particles and let them float around. As a bonus, aluminum is usually melted in electric arc furnaces, which will surely play hob with the magnetic fields even before they slag the platters down.
To stupid people, like me, you would have thought overwriting each bit on a disk would render the data completely unrecoverable.