Classic hard drives suffer the most wear during spin-up and when doing excessive head movements. Formatting is no different than writing to the hard drive normally. In addition to that, normal usage writes to the same general area of a drive very often and requires lots of head movements whereas formatting will sequentially overwrite the entire hard drive, writing each location only once.
Formatting an SSD causes only an insignificant amount of wear. On an Intel X-25M, as stated in this article, if you formatted such an SSD once a day with full erase (no quick format), it would still last more than 5 years.
In classic (non-SSD) hard drives the magnetic material on a drive's platters might eventually "wear out" and lose it's ability to store magnetic charges after a ridiculously huge number of writes, but hard drives will fail long before that due to mechanical failure.
Doing a low-level format on the file system will cause the disk to be written entirely.  There is an abstract amount of reads and writes that can be done on a disk, so the process of formatting can cause the life of the disk to be diminished.  If your friends are doing the "Quick" format method when installing their OS, they are not writing across the entire disk, so it shouldn't cause much of an impact.
You should only reformat your drive when you really want to start completely from scratch.  I would stray away from reformatting as a use to simply reorganize your computer.
Reformatting once a month is not a good idea.  There is some wear involved with formatting.  It's the same wear you get as regular use (it's performing the same operations essentially), only it can be across your entire drive, instead of isolated.
In Solid State Drives, the main cause for breakdown is actually wear on the NAND cells storing the data which will eventually be rendered incapable of keeping their charges. During normal usage, most SSDs employ wear-leveling algorithms that will make sure data is written to different cells across the whole drive, even if it requires shuffling existing data around.
I'd argue that it is.  Your hard drive, in addition to your fans and optical drives, are one of the few places in a computer that relies on moving parts (unless it's an SSD, and that has it's own reason not to format the drive regularly).  As such, it's also one of the more likely parts of a computer fail.  Hard drives in particular can be a pain when they fail, because they often take a lot of data with them.
If you are not doing a full format of the drive where you just delete and create the partition or the write a new file allocation table (or whatever it's called these days) not such a big deal, you are only writing to a small part of the drive.  