As for CPU sharing, it's possible but there is no single standard for it. You can't just share it and let another computer take needed resources. Instead you need to have specifically designed applications which can work on several computers at one. This is often called distributed computing and is used by some research projects such as SETI@Home, Einstein@Home, Climateprediction.net and many others. 
It would be a nice feature to share cpu/ram for tasks over network. Currently we are still bound a bit of old notions to keeping programs in the box where things happen, but we can allow multiple cpus on same machine to access same sniplet of code. We do have one method (at least) that does something like this. java on webpages work by using both server and client, but it's still locked in a server-client way to do things (where server holds most of the data). What we need to be able to assign tasks to machines in much the same way as we do when we have multiple cpus (except machine that does the work need to have program snip and data snip assigned. This does put a heavier load on network though if the tasks themselves isn't of a simple nature and could result in new bottlenecks forming. I like the idea where it's repetitive tasks though in methods much like key mining.
The only operating system I know which allows to share CPU/RAM  is plan9. There you can export/mount almost anything. This doesn't means performances are good, of course. 
You can share RAM using RAM disks, but that looks just like sharing normal disks, except that these are in another computer's RAM. There is no direct way for one computer to use another computer's RAM as if it was its own RAM, but there are some ways to use other computer's RAM. More on that in next paragraph.
Basically programs work in such way that there is one central server which distributes the work which needs to be done. Computers on network download work units from central computer and process them. After that central computer receives results from clients and merges them into one cohesive result.  This way computers "share" CPU and RAM resources over network.  The downside of this is that programs need to be made in such way as to work over network and right now distributed computing isn't popular enough among common uses for a computer so only a small number of specialized programs support it. On the other hand, it is commonly used for scientific purposes as it is cheaper to obtain large number of personal computers or playstations 3 than it is to obtain access to a mainframe computer.