If, and only if, after having done all that you still have email volume problems, then is the time to consider archiving.
Disclaimer: I work at Red Gate, albeit in one of the other divisions. But as a tester, so no marketing talk from me :)   
User education is the best approach; get them in the habit of deleting emails that they don't need to keep, saving attachments to the file system, and so on.  Have them understand that these documents aren't their own personal property, they belong to the company.  My experience is that people tend to be hoarders so far as email is concerned, and once you get that sorted out you may find that the problem goes away on it's own (and saves a lot of money in doing so!)
Best part is the cost can be nothing if you use existing hardware for the hMailServer since it's free
Do an ExMerge on all the current mailboxes and that gives you a quick snapshot of everyone as they are and then hMailServer for everything from this point on.
I've used Symantec EV and don't like it too much; a general antipathy towards Symantec products rather than for any sensible reason I'm afraid.
A couple of years ago I did some study/training on EMC's option, SourceOne (prev emailxtender).  I can't recommend it (since I only used it in a lab environment), but the features match up.
I have done this in Exchange 2003 so I can only assume 2007 can do it as well.  There is an option on the mailstore in 2003 to "Archive all message sent or received by mailboxes on this store"  You specify an email address in there and Exchange will send a copy of all email to that address.
Then put hMailServer on a dedicated box that only you have access to.  You now have a copy of all email for the legal reasons.  Backup this box and you're all set.  You access it using an IMAP client.
I generally tend to shy away from email archiving products for a number of reasons.  Firstly, one can always look at better mailbox management policies.  Secondly, I question if important info such as we're talking about here should really reside in the email system in the first place.  Look at it this way: if somebody was on leave and an important doc was lurking in their email, what would need to be done and would you be happy doing it?  Finally, check your data retention legislation - it may be the case that for email the owner of a record is the person who creates it, i.e. the original sender.  If this is the case, the 20 odd people who have received it have no grounds for keeping it.  In other words, I view archiving as moving the problem elsewhere.
Slightly different approach but we have our archiving handled by Mimecast, in addition to AV and Spam filtering. I'm very happy with it - but it's a little different from a lot of the usual suspects because it's all handled offsite.