Like others have said, the domain policy will generally override any local settings you try to configure for this.  There's a couple other things I'd like to add, though:
Just play some songs in Windows media player by selecting in repeat option.(Mute the volume). Then it never locks or sleeps.
I think this is because of corporate group policy. As I am an administrator on this computer I should be able to reconfigure the group policy setting using gpedit.msc.
from https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/windowsserver/en-US/5c2518d4-f531-471a-a649-0f5dd5495679/group-policy-to-auto-lock-the-system-after-fix-interval?forum=winserverGP
Edit: I don't have configured a screen-saver. I also want to continue to be able to lock the workstation manually.
Be careful tweaking this setting, whether it be via registry or otherwise.  I once tried messing with mine on one system (domain policy is to lock after 15 minutes, but I prefer 5 - can't remember what I changed, though) and the system ended up listening to neither the domain nor my preference even after I rolled back the change.  In this case, it ended up not running a screensaver at all.  That's exactly what you want, but definitely not what I'd intended.  YMMV.
User Configuration\Policies\Administrative Templates\Control Panel\Personalization. The required settings are: 'Enable screen saver', 'Screen saver timeout', 'Force specific screen saver' (this is important because if the system has no screensaver configured this won't work) and finally 'Password protect the screensaver'.
What is the group policy setting that I need to change to prevent automatic locking of my workstation?
You can use the Nosleep.exe function. It works like a charm. You need to download it from the internet.
On my Windows 7 PC the system becomes locked after 10 minutes of inactivity. Usually I would find this setting next to the screen-saver configuration. The setting is grayed out, however.
Download link http://www.symantec.com/connect/downloads/readynosleepexe-prevents-screensaver-and-pc-locking
Regardless:  Unless your system is the sort that requires full-time immediate access, for the preservation of life and/or property (i.e.: 911 Call Center), it is probably against your organization's policy to prevent the workstation from locking.  If your system did fall into that category, then it would probably already be configured not to lock.  Therefore, it's best to just leave it alone.
Even if you do manage to change the setting permanently, corporate administrators may detect the computer as being out of compliance and force the policy on again.  After a few times of doing this, you or your manager may get a memo or visit from your friendly IT Security department.