Why the mode is changed to half-duplex from full-duplex after configuring EtherChannel ? and how come the speed is 3 times of 100Mbps instead of 2 ?
What i know about EtherChannel is, if we bundle two 100Mbps links together, the speed of the bundle will be 200MBps, but the initial status of both the links must be the same.
It's 300Mbps because you have three links assigned (and active) in the channel-group. (show etherchannel 1 port-channel)
but after I configured the links to work as a bundle, the mode of each port-channel interface is changed to half-duplex and the speed is changed to 300mbps instead of 200Mbps.
switchport nonegotiate (which is sort of confusing because it has NOTHING to do with speed/duplex negotiation and only turns off DTP TRUNK negotiation) and when you turn that off, suddenly you find that speed/duplex negotiation suddenly starts working rock solid where it used to fail.
Now, Before configuring EtherChannel, the speed of each single Fast Ethernet link was 100Mbps and all links were in full-duplex mode,
DTP was created so that I could take an unconfigured Cisco switch right out of the shipping box, plug it in to a trunk port on an existing switch, and it would learn it was plugged into a trunk port and set itself accordingly.  If you do not need that feature, turn it off as it intermittently breaks speed/duplex negotiation in random ways when inter-operating with non-Cisco gear (or NICs on edge devices).
before configuring the etherchannel, the speed and duplex mode of individual links were 100Mbps, and full-duplex respectively.
B: One or more of the three is configured to auto-negotiate speed/duplex and one or more of the three is hard set speed/duplex at the other end with negotiation disabled.
This causes negotiation to fail so the switch reverts to half-duplex.  If both ends are set to auto-negotiate, my next question is if the problem switch is also connected to a Cisco switch on the other side.  If it is not, Cisco has a protocol turned on by default that can foil speed/duplex negotiation with non-Cisco equipment and is generally the reason people hard set links.  Cisco by default uses a protocol called DTP to try to determine if the link is a trunk or not on the switch it is talking to.  DTP can confuse speed/duplex negotiation with non-Cisco gear and results in people hard setting speed/duplex settings when they don't have to.  Since I have no need for DTP in my networks, I turn it off with:
I have three switches connected to each other with two links (one of them is a redundant link using STP), but I have configured EtherChannel so that both the links work together as a bundle,