Yes and no. "Public domain" does mean that, by definition, you can do whatever you like with that creative property.
Yes, you should avoid making your visualizations of the characters look too much like the Disney versions, but don't let them scare you away either.
I (not a lawyer) think the correct answer is a little more nuanced.  Taking the "Alice in Wonderland" example, the original publication (old edition, paper book) is indeed yours to do whatever you want with.  But if you take the xyz publisher's 99'th edition E-Book (or Audio Book, or Book Book), that derivative work can be protected by its own copyright.   
However there's an important caveat here. What's public domain is the underlying story, not every specific creative work based on that story. So, like, you could have a book titled Alice in Wonderland, but its cover can't be Disney's Alice in Wonderland.
I'm not a game developer, but I just happened to stumble across your question. I am a writer and journalist, and I've written about copyright many times in the past.
Also, if you just wanted to show a book on a bookshelf, without actually showing any of the content, you can legitimately show the title of ANY book, even if it's still protected by copyright. Copyright doesn't protect the titles of books, only the content of the story. You might want to avoid book titles that are also big franchise trademarks (Harry Potter, Star Wars, Chicken Soup for the Soul) but even there you'd probably be within your rights to use them. You just don't want to become the test case.
So for your example of including a book in a game, if you made your own photo facsimile of an out of copyright edition, you're in the the clear; but if you take advantage of someone else's digitized "Alice" you have to consider what copyright they claim.
If you're specifically thinking of Alice in Wonderland, the answer to your question is an unqualified YES. The book is old enough that the copyright has expired everywhere in the world, so you can do whatever you like with it: Publish excerpts or the full-text within your game, base parts of the game or the whole thing on it, turn Alice into a crack addict living on Mars, whatever you want. That's what "public domain" means. It's out of copyright and ANYONE IN THE PUBLIC has the right to use it. In the U.S. especially it's sometimes difficult to know if something's in the public domain, but you can safely assume that anything from the 19th century (Alice in Wonderland, Sherlock Holmes, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Frankenstein, Jane Eyre, etc. etc.) is fair game. In fact, most works up to 1922 or so are probably fair game, but then it starts to get complicated.
Wikipedia says that moral rights (sometimes called "authors rights") are rights retained by the author of a work, even if they no longer hold the copyright. They include the right of attribution (or of not being attributed, at the author's discretion), and the right to ensure the integrity of the work although I'm not sure whether that would hinder you inserting the book into your game.
I would say that you could, as public domain means that it's free to be used, however I'm not too sure as far as Moral Rights/Authors Rights are concerned.