How to upload custom server certificate: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_server-certs_manage.html
This is the only solution using all-native-AWS-managed components for "installing" your own SSL cert for your own domain on a static web site hosted in S3.  The S3 service doesn't support this directly, not with Let's Encrypt certificates, or certificates from any other CA.
Disclaimer: I haven't actually looked at let's encrypt in detail; this is just what I grasped from the "how does it work" documentation.
You can store files of your website on S3, but to publish it you need to use CloudFront. And there you'll be able to select custom certificate which you have to upload at AWS IAM certificate store.
You could create your own ssl cert using OpenSSL and applying it through apache config (assuming you're using apache). Beware, however, that home-grown certificates and https makes effectively all browsers give the user a warning that your site may be 'insecure' or 'compromised' when using said home-grown certificate. You could get an ssl cert from a certification authority, although that has a turnaround and usually cost some amount of money.
As I understand it, the let's encrypt system requires that you provide proof that you control the website by writing a json file containing a nonce in a well-known location. Once you've done that, your agent has a key that it can use to update the SSL certificate. The agent must be able to write the certificate to the right location somehow, but I don't believe it has to run on the machine serving the website.
First, though, using "Let's Encrypt" is not actually relevant to the question: it's a Certificate Authority (CA).  It issues SSL (TLS) certificates, just like all the others, except that it apparently will only issue domain validation (DV) certificates and those certs will apparently be issued without charge. But those last two points (while interesting) are also not relevant to the question. 
So, "can I use an SSL certificate from Let's Encrypt on a static web site hosted on S3?" is not the correct question to ask.  The only question is "can I use HTTPS for my domain, with a certificate I provide, on my static site hosted on S3?"
CloudFront in front of S3.  You can configure a CloudFront distribution pointing to the bucket's web site hostname as a "Custom" origin, then load your new SSL cert into CloudFront, and change the DNS to point to CloudFront instead of directly to the bucket.
As such, you could have the agent write it to a location which you occasionally check from some script that then uses the correct amazon API calls to update the certificate. It's probably even possible to have the agent directly call that script.