Problem happened when we unplug the network cable of Client A machine and on another machine log in Client A in about 30 seconds, client A on the new machine will start TCP communication with server B, the first many commands are OK, but after that server can't receive any command from Client A anymore.
if the packet does not make it to the segment RouterB-SwitchB then your port forwarding at Router B (in order to bypass its NAT services) could be not working right or the router is just not routing your traffic.
I would stick with Wireshark moving it to see packets between the Router B and the Switch B (can you add a hub in between to insert wireshark's PC?)
You will most likely find knowledge of NAT and checking translation tables etc a lot less valuable then using simple network tools.    The first tool I would use is "WinMTR" from the Client A.  Leave that running for a little (minutes ?) while and see if and where packet loss occurs.  This will give you a very good idea where to look further.  [ Looking at latencies and spikes in latencies will also give you some hints if you know what to look at ].
I think it is important to get more information, switches don't do NAT (but routers do), and different routers have widely varying abilities.  I've never heard the term "checking the translation table" when referring to switches or routers, but I do understand what you mean with respect of routers.
If you run Wireshark from Server B is ok; if not please consider you would need a managed switch configuring a "mirror/span/monitor" port where you connect to Wireshark's PC.
You commented "The reason why I want to perform the two actions is that we found packets were sent out of the network interface of ClientA, but due to unknown reason the TCP kernel of ClientA machine never receives any ACK packet from the other endpoint, thus it enters data transmission until timeout. And from the server side, also using Tool WireShark we found the network interface of Server B machine never receives the packet sent from client A, of course it was not able to send any ACK packet back to ClientA."
Is it just one way that has an issue? like A->B. Or B->A too? You could troubleshoot a bit there like swapping the cables around. swapping the ports they're connected to.
The reason why I want to perform the two actions is that we found packets were sent out of the network interface of ClientA, but due to unknown reason the TCP kernel of ClientA machine never receives any ACK packet from the other endpoint, thus it enters data transmission until timeout. And from the server side, also using Tool WireShark we found the network interface of Server B machine never receives the packet sent from client A. I guess the packets were dropped by Router B, so I wonder if it is possible to capture packets at Router B.
Perhaps Tomato or DDWRT can. So if your router supports that firmware / if you bought one that supports it, you could try that. 
I am facing an issue that some packets sent out to internet from inside network were missing. The pattern we are using is like:
Actually the issue only happened when we have two clients, say they are Client A and Client C. The Client A and Client C don't communicate with each other directly, but communicate with Server B instead. 
For someone to provide more help, you might want to provide more detail as to why you believe packets are going missing, and the characteristics of the problem.
I love the fun ideas of how to see what is happening at your router, it may be possible with a fancier router, or better firmware. But if you can/want to do that, then you'd probably have or need a better router, or a replacement one to try.  Don't overlook basic troubleshooting techniques, monkey type logic, like swapping parts!