Lawsuits are expensive even if you ultimately prevail. So I suggest discretion: try to make it clear that you're parodying it without taking too much directly from it.
If you ARE turning a profit, then chances are the company is gonna be interested, they'd probably like a large slice of cake. What I'd do, is contact the developers on their policy and ask them how they'd feel about what you're doing, and if it comes to it, discuss what % of money they would have out of it. Better yet, if what you're doing is successful, sell them the idea or ask to work for them based on that, like catch me if you can.
Imagine for a moment that you've spent more than ten years of your life creating a suite of hundreds of characters and a huge game world.  You've made a series of child-friendly games that people around the world love, and done pretty well by yourself through them.  These games are one of the core franchises that keeps your company afloat, and allows you to continue to pay your employees.
Now imagine that a no-name developer contacts you out of the blue, and wants permission to remake one of your existing games, but including gore and other adult content.  Under what circumstances would you ever agree to that?
I know this post is old as shit but, I'm getting into this kind of area right now, thinking of making a game about an existing franchise.
On the one hand, copyright law does allow fair use exceptions for parodies and documentaries that criticize the original work. On the other hand, this description does not sounds like a criticism:
To parody Pokemon, you are not required to copy Pokemon. You simply need to reference it. Traditionally, this is done with obvious knock-off characters.
Parody, legally speaking, is protected. You're allowed fairly wide latitude to parody things. But be warned: if your parody strays too close to the source material, you could be in for a lawsuit, even if it is a parody. Where that line is depends on who's the copyright holder.
Through what I've researched so far, it all comes down to money. If you're not turning a profit, then game companies shouldn't care so much, unless what you're doing dramatically alters the lore, context, genre, story, ethos, context, presentation, chronology etc of the series of games. And ultimately, put a giant disclaimer in your game somewhere that denies all rights, and say that it is a non-profit product.
So instead of Pikachu, you might have Zapachu or something like that. Just look at common parodies in fiction; that's generally how they work.