Access Activity - Identify and monitor key data to track all access, including details such as who accessed the data and when, and retain the details in log form.
I believe there are no free tools for this... one commercial tool i know is Access Manager from Quest.
Apart from the obvious - that this is insanely expensive in a 1000+-server domain - you would need to script something that retrieves all machines from AD and then iterate over them with an administrator account that has the rights to view all permissions of all filesystem objects.
Compliance Accountability - Assign ownership of all data to the appropriate business owners for accountability and compliance reporting.
Data Control - Secure access to data, files and shares so that sensitive information is accessed only by those with a business need.
There is no magic tool that scan everything. Because scanning all resource IT can go much further than file share:
Data Intelligence - Analyze who is accessing and using data and how often to help determine data retention policies for archiving and deleting unused data.
Access Insight - Produce intelligent reports for business owners to clearly show who is controlling and accessing the data, who the owner is, or to suggest potential owners to help initiate an attestation process for compliance.
I suggest you look into the Sysinternals tools (now part of Microsoft) in particular AccessChk and AccessEnum.  I haven't used them myself, but they sound appropriate to your needs.
Best practice is to avoid direct access based on user account (as said by others), and manage request as tickets (through a ticketing tool) so you can trace request intead of diving the real system matrix.
I would like to know all the permissions a windows domain user have in my network. Is there a way, with a script file or a tool, that can extract this kind of information by checking all the servers and computers in my network? I'm on a Microsoft network with Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows XP, Windows 7.