Note that you may need to do this again if PHPMyAdmin is updated. You may also have further problems with permissions if SELinux is enabled.
I was also getting the error The configuration file now needs a secret passphrase (blowfish_secret) when the configuration file had $cfg['blowfish_secret'] set. I'm using CentOS v6 and I installed PHPMyAdmin from the EPEL repo using yum. I setup nginx to host PHPMyAdmin and the PHPMyAdmin package (by default) is setup to work with Apache. The configuration file is located at /etc/phpMyAdmin/config.inc.php (you can check CONFIG_DIR in libraries/vendor_config.php to find where your config file is located) and if you notice, the user is root and the group is apache for the file and directory. This causes PHPMyAdmin to not be able to read the configuration file. To fix this problem, use chown to change the group to the one that is running your webserver (in my case, the group is nginx). You will need to change the owner for both the directory AND configuration file (as shown below).
Copy the example file to create the actual used file that overrides defaults. The directory shown below is just an example, therefore use the directory/path for your phpmyadmin installation that applies. 
In addition to checking permissions are executable for the http (web server) group, it's worth checking that the 'open_basedir' entry in php.ini includes the directory where config.inc.php is located if it is set. This cured this issue for me.
The latest version of phpmyadmin does not create the config file after installation. There is an example config file available and an actual default config file deeper in the folder tree. 
You need to add a blowfish password to the phpMyAdmin's config file. Edit /etc/webapps/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php and insert a random blowfish "password" in the line  
If you see the following error message at the bottom of the page when you first log in to /phpmyadmin (using a previously setup MySQL username and password) :
At the top of the file is the blowfish variable that needs to be set. Add 32 random characters to the variable's value and then save the file.