Well, consider you do not ground it properly, you add an ethernet cable and there is some leakage. Chances are you will get electrocuted and indeed you might need temporary or permanent replacement.
Potentially significant. If both grounds have different ground potentials, you can cause current through your device. This is potentially harmful. 
I am installing a new ethernet switch, and the instructions say to connect the ground screw to the rack or some other kind of electrical ground. What are the risks of not ensuring that equipment is properly grounded? Is it because of concerns for the equipment's lifetime, my lifetime, or both?
If you have a shielded cable connecting two pieces of equipment that are not properly grounded to a common ground, the shield will complete the circuit between the two grounds. The amount of current that can flow can be surprisingly high. There's a well-known, well-documented story of an RS232 cable run between two buildings that started a fire.
Let me tell you my story of why grounding is important. In my office there was an un-grounded outlet, I did not know this at the time. I was troubleshooting a PC that would only partially boot. In the process my I was reaching behind the PC to plug in a USB keyboard and my arm ended up touching the case. I ended up with a nasty shock and a renewed respect for electricty.
This is because that equipment was designed to be installed anywhere in the world, and not every place has 3-wire electrical. Additionally, not every 3-wire install has a well grounded ground-wire, so having the option of creating a separate ground is a very good idea for the enterprising electronics manufacturer. 
With standard Ethernet cabling, it does not matter. The Ethernet signals are all isolated from the ground (typically by a transformer). This was an intentional design decision and one of the driving factors was to allow Ethernet to tolerate a lack of a common ground.
However, any cable that includes a ground wire that is not a power cable should only connect two devices with a common ground connection.
Now with that story out of the way as long as your outlet is grounded correctly there is little need to use the ground screw. However if you are not running from the wall outlet (using DC power perhaps) the ground screw is an important piece to the safety of you and your equipment.