So, if you ran a backup, did a chmod * by mistake or something like that, the change/modification time may have changed.
While analyzing the disk image you can keep the system running and keep monitoring its network flows.
I noticed a number of directories on my home server that I haven't touched in have had their modification time changed, though none of the files contained in these directories report a change in time.  
In regards to pulling the plug he suggests that because halting a machines can cause a lot of housecleaning on the way down that will make seeing actually changes in file or MAC times harder.
Checking /etc is a fine idea, but that will only tell you if someone tried to modify your configuration, not whether or not someone actually penetrated your system just for the fun of it.
If you don't spot out anything, take a full snapshot of the harddrives during a short downtime. Don't go through the normal shutdown process, hard reset it.
Now, on the topic of intrusions, after the fact checks will only work if you had the security measures BEFORE in place. If you are not securely storing your logs on a central repository, looking for them on the target machine is useless (any attacker will delete/modify them). My suggestion:
Try monitoring closely the network traffic of the host by running a traffic capture externally. Look for any suspect or unusual connection.
PS I forgot to include the possibility that a script (that you ran on purpose) may have touched files in ~/ for some totally legitimate reason. That's something to look at as well, before getting too worried about having been hacked.
The modification time is not a reliable source of information, since it can change quite frequently (specially on a home directory). This is what the manual says:
I attended a pretty fantastic talk last night about basic computer forensics. Here's a link to his slides. http://greenfly.org/talks/security/forensics.html He ended with a demonstration of Superslueth which would require you pulling the plug on your system, booting a rescue CD that does not automatically mount the hard drive, then mounting read only, making an image of the harddrive or partition you're interested in, and then loading that into SUperslueth on a separate machine. It's a fair amount of work, but using the machine while running and mounted read/write is going to destroy a lot of data. 
I run an IDS (fcheck), and it did not report anything on the date of the directories' modification time.  This is not surprising since the directories in question are in my home directory (which my IDS does not scan).  I have grepped through auth.log and did not find any unauthorized access on the date in question and checked most configurations in /etc appear to be the same.  How should I proceed next to determine if in fact my machine has been compromised?
If you determine that your system was penetrated, you'll have to figure out what vector they used. You say it's a home server: does that mean someone has cracked your wifi password, and attacked from the LAN—which is often a trusted network—or that someone got past your router from the WAN side?
If you log in and start poking files you can either taint the evidence and let the intruder guess that you spot him/her out.
Checking your logs is the first thing to do. That should let you know if someone has entered your system via any open door (e.g., sshd, do you see login times that don't correspond to times at which you logged in?)