You can create new partitions or resize existing ones, but you should use GParted or some other GPT-aware tool for this job. You'll then need to create a fresh hybrid MBR. There are at least three ways to do this:
The GParted software you used modified the GPT data structures and then replaced the hybrid MBR with a legal protective MBR (part of the GPT data structures), thus turning the dangerous hybrid MBR into a legal GPT -- but this resulted in Windows being unable to boot. When you ran gptsync, it created a fresh hybrid MBR from the modified GPT data structures.
Another option you might consider is to convert the Windows installation to boot in EFI mode rather than in BIOS mode. If you do this, you could convert the disk to a standard GPT disk without the hybrid MBR. Windows 8 and later normally boot fine in EFI mode on most Macs, but there may be some exceptions to this rule. Doing the conversion would involve switching the disk to using a legal GPT (adjusting the partition, as you need to do, with GParted, should do this) and then installing an EFI-mode Windows boot loader. I used to have links to pages describing how to do this, but they've all vanished recently, I'm afraid. The new Windows MBR2GPT tool can do it, but this tool does an MBR-to-GPT conversion, too. I don't know how it would react to a GPT disk with a hybrid MBR or to a pure GPT disk. Given the way other Windows tools handle hybrid MBR disks, you could end up losing your GPT partitions that are not duplicated in the hybrid MBR. All in all, although a conversion to an EFI-mode boot of Windows may be the best approach in the long term, the process of getting there is a bit uncertain at the moment and is likely to be riskier in the short term.
First, be aware that rEFIt is abandonware. I forked rEFInd from it, and rEFInd is under active development. That said, it was almost certainly not rEFIt per se that fixed the problem, but gptsync, which is a program that ships with both rEFIt and rEFInd, but is more easily accessed from rEFIt. The purpose of gptsync is to create a hybrid MBR, and that's really what you need to understand before you do anything else. I strongly recommend you read that link (which is to part of my documentation for gdisk -- a GPT disk partitioning tool that can also create and manipulate hybrid MBRs).
In brief, a hybrid MBR is a flaky and dangerous hack that Apple used to install Windows 7 and earlier. (Windows 8 and 10 may also boot in BIOS mode from a hybrid MBR, but fresh installations generally install in EFI mode to a pure GPT disk.) A hybrid MBR starts with a legal GPT disk but alters the data structures so that Windows treats it like an MBR disk that duplicates up to three GPT partitions, whereas OS X (and also Linux, FWIW) treats it as a GPT disk. Because the result is a disk with two independent partition tables, it's easy for these two partition tables to get out of sync -- all you need to do is to use a partitioning tool that understands one partitioning system but not the other, thus modifying one and leaving the other intact. In practice, the most dangerous tools for this are those that come with Windows, since they ignore the GPT side and modify the MBR side. (On a hybrid MBR disk, the GPT data structures really should take precedence when partitioning the disk, for various reasons.)
Speaking of risk, it's important that you back up your computer, or at least your important user data, before you do anything else. Even the least-risky options available to you carry some risk, and proceeding with these bleeding-edge operations carries a risk of serious data loss. If you lack adequate backup hardware, buy it! Even if you do nothing with your current setup, there's a risk of a software bug, malware, or hardware failure coming along and wiping out everything you've got.