Files in C:\Windows\Installer are not related to patches or updates; they come with programs you install, and are needed for change/repair/uninstall oeprations (and sometimes for installing later updates to these programs, too).
16 GB is pushing it for a system volume for Win2008 - a fresh install with updates has taken up 15 GB on my 2008 VM.  I am not sure about freeing up space within the system volume by deleting "unnecessary" files and folders, but the good news is it is a VM, it is Win2008, and you can actually make the system disk bigger quite easily because of these 2 things.
For Q1, you mean just the normal Windows Updates files that get installed through Automatic Updates?  You can free up that space by deleting the content INSIDE C:\windows\SoftwareDistribution\Download
2) Reboot the VM (you may not actually have to do this step, but I did on mine - seemed too crazy to be able to resize the system volume without rebooting since it is Windows after all...)
These are just a few I could think of, there are a number of good articles on the internet describing a variety of techniques for freeing space, some safe, some likely to destroy your windows install if you get it wrong, so beware!
4) Right click your system volume and select "Extend Volume...".  Go through the wizard to add the additional space to your system volume and you now have a larger one than you did before.
The $NtUninstallKB folder in previous OS' doesn't exist in Windows 2008 so you can't just delete the uninstall files anymore.
Goes without saying that you could also do this to your Data disk as well.  Even if this wasn't a VM you could still add another physical disk and extend onto that although you may be creating a less fault-tolerant configuration unless you are extending onto a RAID volume.  Because this is a VM, all ESX does is make the vmdk file larger.
1) Edit the VM properties and change the hard disk size to something larger (I'd recommend at least 40 GB or more to ensure you don't have to do this again)
I would make a disk image of the system using Clonezilla  and then go ahead and experiment.  If things dont work out just restore the image and try again until you get it.