The solution is delete everything off of the computer (which will destroy the malicious software) and reinstall the operating system. You want to take OS install disc (which came with the computer) and use it reformat the hard disk, then reinstall the OS.
Once you get familiar with the process you can perform a new image every so often. The image backs up everything including docs, music etc. This way when you get a nasty virus or a busted hdd you can restore the image on the pc or even on another machine.
Like others have suggested, I would recommend you use the built-in system restore tools to restore the system to a fresh and clean brand new state and then use a system like Dropbox or simply a thumbdrive to store backups without needing any technical help. It's usually cheaper this way too.
Is it a common practice to back-up a brand new computer?  This computer has never even been taken out of the box and turned on.
I always assumed, perhaps wrongly, that back-up is for archiving "personal" documents - your pictures, documents, music files, etc.
You are correct that backups are usually meant to save important information somewhere besides on the system itself. If this was a Server, the important stuff would be all of it: the whole Operating System and all the programs and everything. Because it's just a personal laptop, the important stuff is the personal stuff.
If you don't trust this person, tell your friend to not use that computer. There are several malicious things that could have been done to the computer but here are two of the most likely and serious:
A friend of mine gave her brand new laptop to a co-worker who told her he would back it up for her before she started using it. He returned the laptop, told her it "took 4 hours to back it up" then didn't give her any discs with the back-up data.  He also promised her he would install OpenOffice for her, but its not installed. She feels like something isn't exactly above board with this.  Is she correct?
It would probably be a good idea to make an initial image of the system in case you ever wanted to restore it completely to 'out of the box' configuration. You can use the built in Windows tools or something off the shelf like Acronis.
The technician may indeed have backed up the whole system, which could have taken up to 4 hours depending on how he was backing it up. However, not giving any media (disks, drives, etc) containing backed up data is indeed very fishy.
Sounds odd. I dont see how it could take 4 hours to back up a brand new machine. Personally before I would use it I would reimage it myself with whatever OS it is.
By backing up a fresh machine with an image using windows backup(another answer beat me to finding a link) you can then reinstall that image onto a computer to mimic the safe beginning state of the new pc. This is sometimes common practice for users who like to keep entire system images (and tnose who also have space).
Backups are never made of new computers. There is no point: there is nothing on there but the OS, and you have the install disc for that. And yes, backup often only covers files you personally created, because everything else can be restored from elsewhere. There is also something called disk imaging that will backup the entire computer, but that requires extra hard disks or magnetic tape, and isn't typically done for a personal computer (servers are another question).