This was a nightmare for us as we were looking for a hardware problem as most accept that a switch can handle this. A dumb switch maybe, but a managed switch doesn't. I tried several major manufactures and they would all reset randomly within a month :(
By using VLANs you can tag the switchports so that any computer configured to only receive traffic from the VLAN will not be able to get any traffic (except the one directed to it and having the correct VLAN) regardless of how the local interface is configured (how many IPs there are on the interface).
DHCP server (Windows) must have two nic cards connected to the same switch (our is virtual so it doesn't matter) in order to give out ips to the wireless network, you will have to use static IPs on the "old network", it will not work serving two dhcp scopes over the same switch.
Things will work pretty much as you'd expect. At the heart of it, they're just sharing a broadcast domain. The computers in the different subnets won't ARP across-subnet so they will still need a router (or embedded layer-3 entity in the switch) in order to "talk" to each other.
We implemented this in our school because we were running out of ip addresses and gave a new subnet to the wireless section, works fine on a 3000 users network, for a quick solution is a plus, I agree we have to create vlans in order to preserve security.
If you're just doing this in a lab scenario it's probably fine. If you truly need isolation, though, in production deployment, you should use VLANs or separate physical switches.
Because they share a broadcast domain there's much less (arguably, none) isolation than if you were using VLANs. It would be easy to ARP and MAC spoof hosts in either subnet from either subnet.
I've just spent a couple of years trying to resolve a problem with both a poe phone system and a computer network on the same managed switch. Yes it should work without a VLAN but every month or so it doesn't and would reset the switch, causing endless issues with connected equipment. (phone system resets, router resets and random switch resets)
If you don't use VLANs a person could easily just add 2 IPs to their interface say 192.182.0.1/24 and 172.16.0.1/24 so that he or she could access both networks.
Can anyone tell me what some of the implications of having two different subnets on the same switch would be if VLANs are not being used?