What type of features or functionally do you like or would you like to have in your help desk or trouble ticket software?
So "Joe Help Desk" looks at a single work-management portal that shows the 8 user-support items, the 2 items for the Windows 7 project, and the 5 things he does every day for the backups.  And "Jill Server Admin" looks at the same portal that shows her 12 items for the Windows 7 project, the 4 daily server maintenance tasks, and the 2 user-support items escalated by Joe. "Jeff Manager" looks at the portal and sees his tasks, and can also look to see if the maintenance tasks are being completed regularly and how the projects are moving.
I've also seen some really crappy work arounds for this problem where each time a ticket moves queues the user is required to create a new ticket in that new queue and reference the original.  Not only is this error prone because people forget, it becomes a mess when a ticket has to be sent backwards because something wasn't resolved properly
For instance, this is especially handy when you have a call center handling user interaction rather than having the systems staff do it directly.  This way when the systems staff solves an issue the ticket can be moved into the queue for the call center to contact the customer and verify the resolution.
This question is for the professional sys admins and desktop support folks.  Sorry developers...you can go talk about bug tracking on Stack Overflow.
Most systems I've seen structure their reporting so that all tickets are only reported to be in their last queue.  From the example above that means when reports are run the ticket shows the call center worked the ticket but not the systems staff.  If one could report history at least it would show the systems group worked the ticket.
Some areas might be reporting, integration with hardware/software inventory, Active Directory/LDAP intregration, automatically closing tickets from those certain users.
I'd like something with a built-in translator. You know, the one that turns user talk into something that at least resembles an intelligent description of the problem.
E-mail integration.  Without that, there's no way I'm having anything to do with a help desk product.  It's important that customers and staff can communicate using e-mail.
I would like to see a system that (essentially) that shows all of the work that needs to be done by the support staff.  At most small and mid-sized companies there is substantial overlap between the folks doing help desk support, the folks doing projects and the folks doing maintenance work.  I would like to be able to manage the tasks for projects and the tasks for regular maintenance along with the tasks for help desk support in a single work management system.