It's also less of a management problem to assign customers dynamic IPs.  If you move across town (but within the same ISP's service area), there's no need to re-assign how your static IP is routed; you'll just get a dynamic IP that exists in the new neighborhood.
When modern ISPs enforce dynamic IPs these days, it may be in part to distinguish between "consumer" and "professional" services--by reserving static IPs for customers who pay more, it gives customers who need that feature an incentive to upgrade their service level.
When ISPs were first starting, everyone connected to the Internet over a modem.  And most people used the Internet for a few minutes to a few hours per week.  Assigning a static IP to every subscriber would have been very expensive, for something that most people used just a few minutes a week.
Another reason for dynamic ips is that fact that when the internet was first made you had much smaller ips(in the format of ivp4 and others) meaning only so many people could be on the internet at once but at that time it was ok. As internet has spread and more people are using it, there have been ivp6 and later evolutions which allow for more diffrent ips meaning more users online at once. Dynamic ips allow for ips to be asigned to someone when there are no free ips and take the ip from someone who is not on the internet. This is a much cheaper options then creating a new standard and making all the routers in the world compatible. 
So there's a bit of a historical reason not to use static IPs--customers are already accustomed to using dynamic IPs.
There are multiple reasons why as ISP uses DHCP (the service that hands out dynamic IPs).  They dont need to change your IP.  Actually, in most cases, you will get the same one when your lease (how long you keep that address, before it asks for one again) expires.
As broadband connections have become more common, the practical reasons for not assigning a static IP have become much less noticeable, as now the majority of connections are "always-on"--even when nobody is (actively) using the Internet.
This of course could be over ridden, but it was easier just to assign a specific modem to a customer, if they wanted a permanent connection, and then their IP Address didn't change.
It can also serve as a deterrent for people abusing their consumer-grade service. Many ISPs, for instance, explicitly prohibit running "servers" on a home Internet connection. If every home user had a static IP, they'd be more inclined to abuse such terms of service.
In the days of analogue modems, each modem was assigned the IP address and who ever dialed into the modem received that IP Address. If you dialed into the same modem, you would receive that same IP Address, if a different modem answered, your IP Address would change.