There are several different reasons a company may want to see your security policy.  One example is that the Payment Card Industry (Visa, MasterCard, AmEx, etc...) requires the companies that process credit cards must adhere to Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS).  A section of the PCI-DSS requires that the partners of the company must also adhere to PCI-DSS (which of course requires written policies).
3) Is the handling and classification of information and data covered by your information security policies? 
 This section notes that the policy covers all of the servers and data assets in your company (and any other specific areas like satellite offices).
6) Do you have a policy that addresses the handling of internal or confidential information in e-mail messages to outside your company? 
Frankly if I am granting you access to your network via a VPN or direct connection, then I want to know that you have a certain level of security, otherwise I am opening myself to all sorts of potential issues.
       A. Manager - decides what gets backed up, determines frequency, medium, and procedures, also checks that backups happen
4) Are there any outstanding regulatory issues that you are currently addressing in the state(s) you operate in? 
I've only ever been asked for this information when working with regulated industries (banking) or government. 
Kara has some excellent guidance on what you want to cover in your policies.  Here's an example of a policy.
They don't need a copy of your entire internal IT policy but I think they may be after something similar to this - someone definitely needs to get you enough information about the contract to determine how much detail you need to provide, and about what.  Tho I agree with Joseph - if they need the information for legal/compliance reasons, there needs to be legal input.
2) What operating system(s) is the web server (s)? (Please provide OS name, version and service pack or patch level.) 
We get this question a lot because we are a hosting facility. Bottom line is that we don't give it out unless we know exactly what they're looking for in advance. If they're looking for something in our security policy that we don't have, it's typically because the nature of our business doesn't require it, and we tell them so.  That can be subjective, but it doesn't matter - we have yet to lose any business because of it.  More often than not, they are asking because they have to tell someone else that they did.  A 'NO' answer is not necessarily a bad thing or a deal breaker.
As far as the level of detail goes, I'd say that it probably needs to be tailored to the audience and the purpose. I'd keep the detail high-level unless I was specifically asked to provide low-level details.
I'd probably start with some Google searches and see what I could find in the way of sample policy documents. SANS (http://www.sans.org) is also another good place to start looking.
1) What operating system(s) is the application server (s)? (Please provide OS name, version and service pack or patch level.) 
2) Which of the following methods for authenticating and authorizing access to your systems and applications do you currently use: 
5) Is there any client-side code (including ActiveX or Java code) required in order to utilize the solution? 
8) What methods and physical controls are in place to prevent unauthorized access to your company's secure areas? 
Is it standard practice: my experience is yes for certain industries that are regulated, such as banking, food, energy, etc.
       C. Users - Has input on what gets backed up, must place data in location designated to be backed up
We just went through SAS70 II certification, so now we just give the auditor's opinion letter and let that speak for our written policies.
That's why being PCI or ISO 27001 certified can be a boon in this regards because you can let the external organization know that you have things handled up to a certain level.  If your policies are very general which policies should be, then it might not be an issue to provide a copy to your partner.  However if they want to see specific procedures or security information then I wouldn't let that leave my site.
Specific step by step instructions should be in a separate procedures/work instruction document.  However if you have a very small organization, you might not separate policies from procedures.
10) Which of the following information security practices are being actively used within your organization 
1) What operating system(s) is the database server (s)? (Please provide OS name, version and service pack or patch level.) 
Is there a standard format: there are a number of standards, but if your contract doesn't specify a standard (ISO, for example) then you should contractually OK to provide whatever format you choose.
13) To provide protection from a power or network failure, do you maintain fully redundant systems for your key transactional systems? 
It shouldn't be difficult. You already have a patching and password standard, so the document should specify what that standard is and how your ensure that it is followed. Don't fall into the trap of spending too much time making it pretty. Just a simple document will suffice.
       B. System Admin - Runs the backups, checks the backups, tests the backups, transports backups, tests restoration, maintains the backup rotation grandfather/father/son
If your contract specifies using a specific standard then you should seek professional help to ensure that you are contractually compliant.
I'm not aware of a "standard format", per se, but then I've always been given some template that my Customer was given by an auditor as a "starting place" when I've had to make these.
4) Do you have vendors that are authorized to access and maintain your networks, systems, or applications? 
1) What are the processes and procedures used to declassify/delete/discard [The Company]’s data when no longer needed? 
1) Will [The Company]’s data and/or applications be stored and/or processed on a dedicated or shared server?   
If yes, are these vendors under written contracts providing for confidentiality, background checks, and insurance/indemnification against loss? 