Do you know of any machine learning add-ins that I could use within Excel? For example I would like to be able to select a range of data and use that for training purposes and then use another sheet for getting the results of different learning algorithms.
Vortarus Technologies LLC here also have an Excel Add-In that can do various intermediate ML tasks from SVM to Neural Nets to CART etc. The free trial is open ended but has some function limits.
Nobody does serious machine learning in Excel; that's not what it's for. Fortunately, you can directly import Excel files into better platforms like python. In particular, there's a great package called pandas, which makes work very pleasant. Here's a demo.
Now, Excel does has major limitations. There are numerical stability issues, it is tricky to write loops (without VBA), it is a pain to write lengthy functions in Excel and there's no concept of structure so I wouldn't try to build things like Random Forest. That being said, there is still a good amount of algorithms you can implement with Excel for fun. 
Weka can import CSV files, and allows you to choose which columns and rows you want to use in your analysis.  It's not an "add-in" for Excel per-se, but it might work for you.
You can find an Excel and VBA implementation of Random Forest using the open source ALGLIB Library here
If your data size is reasonably small (say <10k rows and not too many columns), it is in fact pretty quick and easy to build certain ML models within Excel. All you need is to learn how to use the Excel Solver, and the built-in matrix functions for vectorized computations. 
For example, Neural Networks and Logistic Regressions are particularly easy to build due to the simplicity of their objective function. If you are really inclined to try you could refer to the following link:
(Most) Machine Learning algorithms are essentially optimization problems where you minimize/maximize an objective function subject to certain constraints. Excel comes with the Solver add-in which is pretty handy for lightweight problems, so it is entirely possible for you to build a Machine Learning model within Excel! (I've done it myself)