I believe you can press Esc during bootup to display a boot menu. See if the Linux CD/USB shows up there. If not, try to turn off UEFI Boot and then set the boot order in the BIOS:
As far as Secure Boot goes, here's a Secure Boot bootloader for Linux in case you're interested, and the Linux Foundation should have a valid signed pre-bootloader available sometime soon.
That being said, I eventually put a triple-boot environment on that laptop - Windows XP, Windows 7 and Debian Linux. Which was kind of a PAIN to figure out, but I had to first install Windows XP, then Windows 7 whose bootloader is EFI but will also see the windows XP install and allow you to select between the two. Then I had to make a debian image that was an EFI, but also installed greb, replacing the windows 7 efi bootloader. So now on boot the laptop uefi bios loades the greb bootloader and I can choose between Windows 7 or Debian. If I pick Windows 7, I then get the choice of whether I want to boot 7 or XP. Hope that helps.
I had to enable "BIOS Legacy mode" in the bios itself to even install anything pre-windows 8 on MY windows 8 HP laptop... it allowed the bios to operate "legacy" style as well as uefi. 
A quote "UEFI, or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, is a complete re-imagining of a computer boot environment, and as such it has almost no similarities to the PC BIOS that it replaces. While BIOS is fundamentally a solid piece of firmware, UEFI is a programmable software interface that sits on top a computer’s hardware and firmware (and indeed UEFI can and does sit on top of BIOS). Rather than all of the boot code being stored in the motherboard’s BIOS, UEFI sits in the/EFI/ directory in some non-volatile memory; either in NAND on the motherboard, on your hard drive, or on a network share (more on that later)."
I had the same problem. In the controllpanel (of win) there is a software-setting that you can click off the secure boot in win8. That done, I finally got access to the normal boot and could access the Function-keys for choosing bootorder, bios etc. Hope this helps:)