We tried Hyperic and Zenoss.  Hyperic was pretty good, but once you download it, they will hound you forever trying to sell the paid version - outside of Oracle, no one has ever called me so often about a product.  Maybe that has changed now that Spring Source owns them.  Zenoss looks good, but can be complicated to get setup to do useful stuff since it required a lot of snmp configuration and we started to run up against the limits of the open source version fairly early in our testing and decided that we couldn't afford the the paid version.
Disadvantages are really price, complexity and the need to have some training (or much testing and reading). But if your infrastructure is big enough, high-precise monitoring, extensibility and tiering overcome those disadvantages.
I currently use and love ZenOSS. It's way easier to configure than Nagios and a pleasure to use. It works as expected out of the box, but it requires a solid configuration.
You don't mention the target OS, but if you want to run the monitoring station on a Windows box, have a look at PRTG (freeware or commercial). It will allow you to create custom sensors and custom actions (we call them "notifications"). 
You mention you need something with a small footprint: Paessler monitors their complete office network (75 devices with more than 1400 sensors) on a DELL Inspiron Mini netbook (details...)
My sys admins have settled on Groundwork, which incorporates Nagios and other opensource products while improving the management interface, deployment, and configuration.  The pay version is pretty cheap for 100 or fewer devices ($49/year).
From R2 it has integrated cross-platform monitoring. As for Windows it is really end-to-end complex monitoring. Moreoverm it's highly extensible with 3rd-party features and Management Packs. For example, Jalasoft has Xian for network devices monitoring. You can even extend OpsMgr to check for the coffee level if you want :)
I've used a number of monitoring systems but keep coming back to mon. It's incredibly easy to configure, easy to maintain and with the sole exception of handling SNMP traps it's monitored and alerted with anything I've thrown at it.