The other fairly popular one is FF Fullscreen which I haven't tried, but doesn't appear to be a full kiosk mode that prevents users from getting to the desktop, but rather just a fullscreen with no toolbars mode, which might be what you're looking for anyway.  Your question didn't state whether or not you wanted to keep users from getting to the desktop.
An alternative is the 'Old Lion Fullscreen' addon. If works reliably (unlike FF Fullscreen which seems to have unpredictable full-screen behavior). The only drawback is that the menubar does not appear when hovering near the top.
You might want to try an alternative browser like Opera's Kiosk Mode, also look into the Group Policy of Windows to block additional shortcut keys like CTRL+ALT+DEL and other user functionality...
On new Firefox v.71 currently on Nightly (Beta) you can add --kiosk when running to avoid all bars (navigation and tabs)
Even when using an add-on or extension, it does not disallow the user to mess with the system. This is simply because Firefox doesn't seem to provide the mechanics to allow for a fully implemented kiosk mode, and since they haven't implemented it themselves someone has to take the source and write a kiosk mode himself.
I found how to start firefox in fullscreen, toolbars are hiding by default, but I cannot make the toolbars (address bar, tabbars etc) not showing up when the user hovers on the top of the screen.
As lexu mentioned, what you want is typically called "kiosk mode".  To my knowledge, Firefox does not include built-in kiosk mode functionality (I think only IE includes it in the base version), but it is available with a couple of different Firefox plugins.
This, however does not disallow the user from using shortcut keys to open new pages / tabs / windows.
R-Kiosk is perhaps the most popular one.  I've used it before in one of my previous jobs with a Firefox 3.x setup, but I haven't tried it in a couple of years so I don't know about compatibility and functionality with newer browsers.  It does state it works through the latest versions of Firefox.