One way I was once able to let Java over-provision memory is to add the following to /etc/security/limits.conf (may be different for non-Debian distos) and try testing again in a new login shell:
I use Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS running in openvz. Has been running on 1 core 256 mb for some time but could never get java to work with this configuration. Never paid it that much attention until I needed to run java apps on it and decided to look into it. Couldn't get ca-certificates-java to install. It would fail with open-jdk, default-jdk or when running it separately. Zeroed in on the jvm startup ram allocation process and just increased ram in steps up to 1gb, suddenly apt-get install ca-certificates-java worked and various other installs, including openjdk-6. After running the updates and installs succesfully, I tried resetting ram to a lesser value and found that the jvm accepted 768 mb ram as a minimum regardless of what -Xmx flag was set to. Still better then 1gb. I also tried increasing number of cores but it made no difference in contrast to what someone said above.
In the event you still encounter issues, especially hanging, ensure that your environment has access to at least two CPU cores; java does not run well with a single CPU core. From inside of your container, you can run the command:
Well, the failcnt column of your /proc/user_beancounters contains zeroes only so I suppose the problem is not related to memory allocation. I think you should try to download the package locally using wget and to debug installation process using dpkg --debug=3773. I tried to install ca-certificates-java on my system and I found that ca-certificates-java and openjdk-6-jre can't be installed without each other. If you already have a Java machine installed on your system it should be not the OpenJDK implementation I guess. How did you install a JVM then? Maybe another JVM is a root of the problem.
Hovwever, it's unlikely that this setting will actually help you. You should probably get hosting with a higher privvmpages resource.
You must include the underscore, and set -Xmx to about 80% of available RAM, with -Xms to something lower than -Xmx.
You may also want to double check that your system is using the correct java version for java, javac, javaws and jexec ... 
Set _JAVA_OPTIONS prior to running the apt-get routines, by running the following at the command line: