Get process monitor (http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb795533.aspx).  Keep it running while the service performs incorrectly.  See if any red flags are raised or there are any file or registry permission errors. This should give you an idea if there's some local process that's not able to run.  
That said, if you've tried using local admin, with the user set to be able to log on as service and act as part of operating system, that should eliminate any local issues.  Have you tried setting it to a domain admin, just to see?  If it's running as a user it might not require the computer account to have access, but it would definitely require the user it's running as to have privileges.  Try adding the user to the other boxes it needs network access to with the same local security policy setting set.
So, please try the following: download and run process monitor (procmon), set it up to register the activity of all processes involved and run them as local user. After this, check the log for any access denied (error code 5) result and come back with a result. At that point, we can start thinking about how to fix it through ACL changes or work around it.
Speak to however has provided the service to you. As Stephanie has already pointed out, the service probably shouldn't need to be run as local system. You don't detail what the service is, or what it does, but this is likely to be your underlying problem. Fixing this is the correct thing to do, weakening security to make it work, is the worst thing you can do, and for the love of kittens, please don't run it with domain administrator privileges, (which I see you've already tried from your comments), What if the service is easily exploitable? You've might have just granted someone full access to your entire AD, which will probably turn out to be a bad day for you.
I would also contact support for the software, they may be able to walk you through a solution...Though I can believe it if they said: All we require is local system, why would you want more?
I assume the network resources is a file share? As long as the computer is a domain member, granting the computer account access to the resource should work fine if the service runs as local system, but you need to ensure that both the share and NTFS permissions are considered. You can test that this works by launching a command prompt running as local system with psexec, then try mapping a drive using net use. If you've got it set up right, it should work.
Basically, unless you either build some kind of RPC proxy or change the program to be able to impersonate a domain user, you simply can't grant access to domain resources to the system account.