you can also run the rsync while the system is running normally (although it will be slower while rsync is copying files).  then, when you're ready to cut over to the new drive, either shut down everything that is writing to the old drive (including user process, daemon, cron jobs, etc) OR reboot to single-user mode and run the rsync again, to sync the new drive with any changes that occurred while the initial rsync was running.
Does that sound right? Am I missing something? Suggestions? Tips? Anybody know what the cp command would be?
If it's not the root, and there's nothing using the drive(/usr/sbin/lsof | grep '/path/to/mount/point), then you shouldn't need to boot to single user mode.
I figure I boot to single user mode, format, mount the new drive, do some magical copy command that preserves links, permissions, file dates and everything else, then unmount the old drive, mount the new drive as the old name and reboot.
i prefer rsync for this kind of job because if anything interrupts the copy process, you can just run the rsync again and it will pick up where it left off, not at the beginning again.
I'd do cp -a, if it's not LVM. But as I recall, Ubuntu(version 9, at least) requires the alternate installation disc. I don't know about other versions.
if this is likely to happen again in future, or if you want to use the capacity of both the old and the new drive, then you might want to consider using LVM for the new drive...then rsync the data to it and edit fstab as above.  once you have the system running on the LVM volume group, you can add the old drive (and/or any extra new drives) to the volume group and resize the fs.
I am curious to see what others suggest, though.  Since you are moving the entire filesystem, there are likely to be better choices.  Oh, Is the original filesystem on an LVM volume?
If you've got lvm you can do it on the fly without rebooting/stopping any services, if your system supports hot plugging the drives you can also replace the drives. 