You should never assume that the recipients won't become aware of the BCC recipient.  I've had BCCed recipients hit "Reply All" in their mail program, and announce to everyone their receipt of a mail before, in a stunning lack of understanding of what being BCCed actually meant.  If you really need it to be private, forward the message from your Sent folder after you send it to the original recipients, so the only other address in the message headers is yours.
Your email client or server (don't know which) should strip out BCC information before sending a message. If you BCC yourself on a message and then view the source, you shouldn't find your email address anywhere except in the From line (verified this with my own mail).
On a side note: SMTP is neither reliable, not particularly private.  Some posters claim that SMTP "chains" of servers exist, but in general, SMTP sends from your computer, to your ISP, to the recipients ISP. (and however many servers they have internally)  In general, your mail will NOT be routed to a third party's mail server, and in fact such attempts are generally disallowed for anti-spam reasons. (There are exceptions, as small providers and home networks will forward to their provider, but this is the exception not the rule)
The FBI regularly does so through the Carnivore and other programs, and rogue elements have been documented doing so in the past as well.
In other words, your assumption is unsafe. If you want privacy and security, use digital signatures and encryption, e.g. GPG; vanilla e-mail is a Wrong tool for such job.
Any mail transfer agent (MTA) that fully complies with RFC 2822 (specifically, section 3.6.3, Destination address fields) will remove the Bcc: field from the header before attempting delivery, making it impossible for the non-blind recipients to determine the blind recipients' identities.
In other words is it a safe assumption that no-one of recipients will ever see e-mails in BCC? What if the recipient is an administrator of his (but not sender's) mail server and can do any modifications to his server?
That said, email in transit is not guaranteed to be encrypted, and anything potentially sensitive really shouldn't be trusted unencrypted to the internet via ANY method, including email, as it's trivial for any large provider, or telco to tap the fibers running through their facilities, or log packets traveling across their routers.
That said, even if you used BCC, as long as the BCCed recipient's server is separate from the original recipient, the recipient's server would not have access to the BCC information, as it would have been stripped out (or more likely never included in the message body) by your provider's mail server.