On Mac OS X, I use launchd for this purpose. Launchd is the canonical method for launching processes on Mac OS X. The operating system uses it for ALL system services, so I have no qualms about relying on it. So far I haven't found a similar system for Linux. Various distros all seem to have their own methods (Ubuntu's upstart, etc.) and I still can't find a straight answer on how /etc/rc.local, /etc/init.d/rc.local, /etc/initd/rc.local, or /etc/init all relate and what the difference is between them. They're different on every system. Add to that the fact that "service start/stop x" doesn't work on all systems (and Google hasn't helped here) and you have what I'd call a mess.
I've been looking up information on running background processes on Linux. The basic requirements are:
The most "compatible" way is to write sysvinit scripts, since both upstart and systemd support them. However, it doesn't support automatically restarting services if they die. Both upstart and systemd do support that.
This doesn't exist. Even if you limit yourself to the enterprise linux distributions, you'll find a variety of init systems, e.g.
Additionally, some processes need to be run not continuously, but periodically. This is of course a job for cron, and more than likely it's what I'll use for that. But for continuous processes, it's a different story.
What I want is ONE place I can save my scripts where I can reboot the system and have them launched as daemons at boot (before any user logs in), then have them automatically restarted if they ever terminate. And I want it to be rock solid reliable and fully compatible with multiple distros, not some afterthought like upstart.
You were close with upstart - what you need is systemd. It is not fully supported yet, but handles old-style SysV init scripts (though without supervision) and can be easily adopted to run on many distros. There is no better solution available for now out of the box, but if you prefer not to change entire init you might be interested in monit daemon, which can be easily instructed to supervise almost any service.