Since you're talking about media centers there might be another way to use an existing remote to control the PI without any additional hardware. There is a feature called CEC which allows communication between different devices using HDMI. Assuming your PI is connected via HDMI to a TV screen it might be possible to use use the existing remote control of your TV and monitor commands sent by your remote. This wiki page seems to offer a small introduction. Here is another one talking about CEC support for kodi.
You can install LIRC (Linux Infrared Remote Control) to give the RaspberryPi the ability to send and receive IR commands. Then, you can use some open source software I have written (lirc_node and lirc_web) to create a web interface to control LIRC. This lets you pull up a web page on your mobile phone to act as your universal remote. Much more convenient than having to type in commands manually!
Personally (and like AndyH mentioned above), I think this is the best and cheapest with least amount of work. Tested with Xbian too. 
This Multimedia IR Remote Controller with USB Receiver is supposed to appear as a plain USB HID keyboard. It shouldn't need drivers. Alternatively, MythTV users have a lot of experience in getting odd remote controls to work, sometimes with LIRC.
Yes, it is possible to use the RaspberryPi as a remote infrared control. I have been building this exact project myself and have been documenting every step I have taken to accomplish it.
I have been using a standard RC6 Media Center Remote with my Raspberry Pi for a few months now. But instead of the USB receiver, I use this HoneyPi brand GPIO IR Receiver. It's a daughter board that mounts directly on the Raspberry Pi motherboards GPIO pins. No soldering - which sold me on it.
I have successfully setup USB IR Receiver to control my Raspberry Pi media center running OpenELEC. After setting it up I programmed my Logitech Harmony remote too. 
Works great and doesn't use up a USB port. RaspBMC and OpenELEC are both supported out of the box. It even works through my opaque case.