I was trying to find the time of the last reboot, and instead of entering just that or last | grep reboot. I did a last | reboot on a very important system.
I'm a php web developer with 6 years of experience. This job was really first to me, where MVC framework was used. I really liked patterns a lot and I got through 55 other programmers contest!!! That framework was written by company itself. It's really well documented, it was kind of easy to learn, they had well automated whole work flow of this company. Anyway on the first day, of course I setup my computer and tons of user logins was created for mails, redmine, devwiki and etc... Lead programmer was talking with me about their system every day for about 1 hour explaining basic stuff and rules they are using. This process was really useful, we had the same look on most of IT stuff so it was easy to me to integrate... 
Early in my career I allowed myself to be seduced by a flash in the pan proprietary technology that was in high demand for several years, used by large companies with big IT budgets. I felt on top of the world, having my pick of locations and rates but in the back of my mind I knew this was risky.
My biggest mistake was listening to an advisor in college who, when I did poorly in a particular math class, calmly informed me, "well you'll never be a programmer."  Changed the course of my whole life.
It's hard to know if the road you're on is a dead end but I'll never blindly throw all my eggs into one basket again.
I've wrote first module for 2 weeks, and another one few days. WHY? BECAUSE: They had very strict rules in backend (administration) side, and the frontend was really ugly, and not so strict at all. I spent 2 weeks with frontend ajax bullshits and 1 day with backend. As the result I wrote next 5 models for just ONE WEEK!  in the next week main developer even allowed me to develop framework core and fix some old problems in there, but still director was disappointed on me. Because he appears to be watching me those 2 weeks, and everything was reported to him. So because of stupidity of main developer who could gave me BACKEND rules FIRST, I would make 10x more job then all those 3 other programmers!! When I tried to explain this to director, he said that he can't take any risk more then once.. He wrote a recommendation to be about my "nice code" and paid me for second month, and I got fired. 
I kept going from project to project becoming an expert in this niche field. Then the market swung, the company overreached and their contracts and stock plummeted. I found myself suddenly obsolete, thrown into the real world dominated by emerging open source technologies and I was woefully ill-equipped. I was starting over and it took years to get back on track.