I personally use a good, powerful cooling pad on my Dell laptop that stays on 24/7 - While not actively using the laptop, but it not being exactly idle - processing files etc... it'll rise to a max of ~57 Celsius. A cooling pad would be a good investment in that case. 
All batteries wear out. You can expect the longevity of a laptop battery to be somewhere between that of a mobile phone and a car battery, but eventually it will lose its ability to hold a charge. Laptops also have moving parts (the fan and hard disk) and eventually they will wear out, but my experience was that the batteries went first.
No, but if you want you can remove the battery and run the laptop with only AC, if you are concerned about battery wear.
If this is something you are trying to do in the interim to learn and develop your skills, I would say yes, keep the battery in as a backup power supply. In the real world you will have generators to kick in when the power cuts out. Might as well practice with something as apposed to nothing. I.e. How long can you hang without the wall, what do you do when the battery dies. etc. 
I've done that, first with an old TI '486 laptop, later an old Dell. Both worked fine for 3-5 years and then died. (To emphasize: both were already older than that when I repurposed them as 24/7 home servers.)
Overheating is a potential risk. But it is in the real world too. It is always a risk. Like i said before, if you are practicing or developing your skills. What can you do about it? Do that, if it doesn't work, think of something else. 
There wasn't any physical damage: nothing leaked, melted, caught fire, or exploded. But to answer your question in the terms you asked it, I wouldn't have been able to hand those laptops down to someone else to use as a normal machine. Not because of damage, but because the batteries were too worn.
It either swells, or it just looses its ability to run off of batter for more than a minute or two. Run on AC only if you want to preserve the battery.
As far as overheating, as long as you are using it as a basic server (FTP, personal web / print etc) then it will not be a problem. Just give it good ventilation (Remove optical drive maybe)
Removing the battery is a good way to make sure you don't wear that out. Other than that, it depends on the temperature. If you run it with ok temperatures (no more than 50-60 degrees celsius I would say) it shouldn't matter. Make sure the LCD screen is turned off (it should be if the lid is closed).
The battery in your G4 wasn't new when you started this project. After a couple of years as a server, it will be that much further into it's useful lifetime. 
I think bigbadonk420 has the best answer here. however I would just like to add on to that and mention that:
Overheating really isn't a big deal, the worst thing that can happen is that the computer forcibly shuts down when the temperatures get too high. It will not start burning. If there are no obstructions around the laptop, you'll be fine.
It doesn't really render it useless as a normal laptop unless the modifications you end up making render it not a laptop anymore. However, just making sure you have some spare parts, keep it clean, etc. The machine will be worth the couple bucks it would be without this use in a few years. Unless it is a high end machine, it's going to be worthless anyhow. Passing it down to a family member or friend that is less fortunate, anything is worth it, selling it, not so much. 