Now, this probably won't be something that you'll be able to do with a simple text editor, but there might be some PDF maniulating tools that can do the substiution for you.
Foxit PDF Reader Enterprise Edition allows you to edit PDFs. There's also Master PDF, but the free version adds a watermark (which I'm sure you don't want).
I have a PDF file that is produced as part of a help file compilation.  There is always late breaking stuff which goes into a text file (e.g. "What's new in this version" type of stuff) and while Help and Manual allows you to include stuff from a text file it only works for the CHM output and not for the PDF.
Alternately, you can keep your master copy as a Word (.docx) or OO Writer (.odt) document and use a printer emulator (such as CutePDF Writer) to "print" to PDF. Office 365 and OO Writer also offer "Export to PDF" functionality, which avoids the need for editing PDFs in the first place.
Note the example below; using the document.add method to add a Paragraph into an existing PDF document.
I'm wondering if I can do it by generating a unique placeholder string instead and then using some tool (I may need to write one) to do a search and replace of that unique string with the contents of the late breaking info text file.
There are examples which cover a wide range of topics and should get you pointed in the right direction.
You'll probably need a couple things: First of all, the text can't have been rasterized.  If that's the case, then all bets are off.  Second, the entire font must have been embedded.  If the font was subsetted (which is most often the case) then you may not have the required glyphs.  Finally, you'd probably want to limit the size of the textarea being modified to be as small as possible, just to prevent having to deal with large amounts of reflow.  You'd want as much whitespace around the plcaeholder as possible.
The file oUtput.pdf will have uncompressed object streams, all objects re-numbered and re-sorted in an ascending order, and some helpful comments sprinkled into the file. The file can be edited in a text editor (if it doesn't mess with the remaining binary sections).
You can use (Open Source) qpdf utility (available for Linux, Windows and MacOS X) to unpack the PDF into a more readable format. From there you can go and try some of the other advices from the other answers: