That said, I remember playing the Witcher: Versus browser mmo, with 3 classes: frightener, sorcerer, wither. People were complaining on forum that witcher is not balanced (much worse than other classes), and developers were responding "it's a class taken by 80% of players!". Incorporating a self-balancing system here would make the witcher class even worse - but in my opinion that makes sense.
I know this isn't about documentation, but it is still THE BEST option out. Or i could save my answer by saying "Documents from players beat general guideline documents".
For balancing mechanics, Grab some friends, and do it manually, the fun way. If your game is good i doubt they would disagree, just spend a weekend playing your MMO for a bit. This should help get the basics out of things like whether bleeding needs a nurf or buff, whether being crippled needs to slow down a character more or less, etc.
I always wonder, why don't mmorpg creators make a self-balancing system, where a skill/item gets it's strength from it's rarity. That is, every day a skill is more popular than an average, it gets weaker, and if it's less popular, it gets stronger.
For balancing moves and such, try a beta, open or closed and give players the chance to give feedback. Given the fact that your balancing is for the players, maybe players should have a say in the balancing?
Once you've defined what balance means for your game, then you need to quantify it.  Using the all classes are equal example above: "Average Class Kill/Death ratio, for any two given classes, should fall close to 1.0 within an error tolerance. The error tolerance is set at .5 when any new balancing is added and decreases to a minimum of .05."
All of this requires that you collect, keep and analyze data about everything in the game.  You need this data to run against the quantitative balance checks.
I've seen a couple of examples of some game balancing techniques in books yet they are not comprehensive and not particularly aimed at MMORPGs but I'm looking for practical examples of game balancing techniques for MMORPGs. I am interested to know if anyone has documented the techniques used in popular games with proven success in this area. Ideally, any resource would cover most common types of stats and include layman mathematical models or techniques used to balance game mechanics found in advanced MMORPGs (I know it's a cliché, but WoW style)
When you do find something out of balance, don't fix it until you have a good idea what is causing the problem. Trying to fix things, without knowing the problem will make things worse.  This is why you need to track data on as much about your game as you can, and not just the data specific to the balance.
So now you can identify what is in balance and what is out of balance with some statistics.  The error tolerance part is to allow for statistical errors that should become less significant with more activity.  If you see the numbers going out of this range, you know there's a balance issue.
Your first step is to define what an ideal balance for your game would be.  The easiest way to start this is with simple statements.  For example, "Character classes should not disadvantage players when fighting other players" or maybe "Character classes will have advantages over some other classes and disadvantages to others (think Rock Paper Scissors)"