In either case one is probably expecting to do fairly simple tasks on the remote servers affected, and dropping in specially on any problem hosts. However Fabric provides more options for dealing with variation.
Its important to know what you want to do. If you want to run 'apt-get update' on lots of servers, clusterssh is reportedly an easy-to use and effective tool. See Kyle Rankin's article on clusterssh at the Linux Journal.
Konsole in KDE and Terminal.app on OS X also have the capability of turning one console or tab into a "controlling" terminal that send input to multiple tabs/windows/sessions.
If your work on different servers will require logic loops, putting, getting or otherwise interacting with each host (or possibly having to interact with a host because of an error condition) a tool such as Fabric (which has just hit its 1.0 release) is invaluable.
The SSH Power Tool (sshpt) was designed for parallel SSH without requiring that the user setup pre-shared SSH keys.  It is superior to pssh and clusterssh in that it supports executions via sudo and can also copy files and execute them afterwards (optionally, via sudo as well).  By default it outputs results in CSV format but sshpt.py doubles as an importable Python module so you can use it in your own programs (I used to use it as a back-end behind a a custom-built web-based reporting tool at my former employer).
One thing that is generally not handled well is dealing with multiple hosts behind a gateway host, requiring one to connect first to the gateway and then port forwarding from there. As ssh itself does this quite simply, and one can set one's .ssh/config file to something like 
In order to do the equivalent of ssh dc1mail 'cmd' && ssh dc1phones 'cmd' one has to first bring up ssh gateway. It would be nice if tools like clusterssh and Fabric would permit this to be done as part of their tools. Naturally, you can do this yourself by hand.
If you find yourself managing servers I'd suggest something more robust and in a slightly different realm (configuration management) such as Puppet or CFEngine.