I occasionally need to do this override when doing mobile device drive imaging. There is no point whatsoever waiting out a long forced update process, if I am just going to be wiping the drive anyway and applying a new preconfigured system image.
This is the core of the problem here.  In order to use Windows in a home environment, you need to either get past this, or purchase a server license and install a WSUS server on your network so that you can control which updates are pushed (I didn't say it was a cheap option, but it is a workable solution), or switch to a new OS.  This is the direction MS is going.  
http://www.askvg.com/how-to-disable-install-windows-updates-and-shut-down-option-in-windows-start-menu/
I believe you can still control how optional updates install.  I have started autoinstalling security and bugfix updates.  If it breaks, I will join the hue and cry, but my Win 10 systems are my home systems, and they're not critical.  Systems at work are managed through Enterprise methods like SCCM or WSUS in some cases.
Personally, I hated the loss of control, but then I really thought about it.  Forced updates are the only way to ensure that most workstations are secure.  As a whole, people don't do it right by themselves.  In the past I opted for 'download updates and alert me'.  When was the last time I elected not to install a security update?  Never.  When was the last time a security update broke my computer?  Again, never.  When was the last time I waited days or even weeks to install an update.  Almost every time.  And I'm a sysadmin who works in a security conscious environment.  (The experiences I mention are on my home machines).  In my defense, I often go days without using a computer at home.  But now all of them, mine and those for my family, are autoupdated.  No problem in over a year. 
Laptops with non-removable batteries and ultra-fast Solid State Drives can be quite annoying because the system will go to sleep very rapidly if you press the power button, rather than turning off.
There is a way out, but you are basically going to have to crash the system to force an instant shutdown.
As for preventing an update that is downloaded and queued for install on reboot, the methods which speak to clearing out the downloaded updates are the only way I know.  