I see the problem is evident with more recent HP printers and have tried the solutions suggested above, however:
MS Word 2007, Epson Artisan 835 printer.... I fixed that issue after playing with the print options. I would have never guessed this one, but I found it accidentally, Go to Print, Properties, Page Layout, Two-sided printing; Settings: Binding Edge: check [LEFT] and now my booklet prints correctly. It was set to center by default.      
And check Windows update in case the issue is the fault of Word. You might have to check the 'optional' updates as well as the 'important' updates to be through.
This is because, when you flip to the next page of the 'calendar', the upside-down page would now be right-side up by the change in position. 
Interesting that an old Acer Aspire running XP Professional (V5.1/ SP3) will via router & Wi-Fi drive my HP Photosmart 3310 All-in-One to print a Word document double sided perfectly, whereas my desktop running Windows Ultimate 7 (64bit) and an HP laptop running Widows 10 (64 bit) when printing exactly the same Word document and sending print signal via the same router & Wi-Fi will print alternative pages upside down.  I have made sure the printer preference configurations on the later machines match those in Acer but still no progress.
The same would hold true, for Portrait & Flip on Short Edge as well; because if it's in portrait and the flip is at the top you'd assume the same sort of change in position.
The reason I mention this is because I'm picturing say for example a calendar; if you're in Landscape & Flip on Long edge; then the normal / expected result would be that the back page is printed upside-down relative to the front page. 
Then I would strongly suspect the cause is a bug. In that case, you should check if there are any updated drivers for the printer, which I think you'd find here: http://support.hp.com/us-en/product/HP-Photosmart-5520-e-All-in-One-Printer-series/5157533/model/5157535/drivers/
I agree with Mike. Word 2000,Epson XP760 printer. Landscape, two columns, A4. (It was really frustrating till I read his reply as I was time limited doing a booklet for a funeral).