Also when naming a game, make sure this is something not too abstract that has nothing to do with the game or storyline. Perhaps you can create a simple catchy title that is named after the main city in your game that the story revolves around. But ultimately, game design is supposed to be fun so choose a name you like and don't worry about it. Most likely, when someone proposed the title "World of Warcraft" many people thought it was terribly cliché. But with that games popularity, you begin to think of the game and its users rather then about the title.
Name should be really unique! Unfortunately I can't think of any examples right now, but there were cases when I heard a name of a  game which seemed interesting and was unable to find it because it was too generic!  
How does the name of a game relate to how popular it becomes? Have there been studies around this subject? Are people influenced by the name of a game?
A great name can help a solid game gain press and get gamers talking about it. Here's our checklist for naming our titles:
I spent some time searching for an article that came out several years ago on the psychology of naming your product, but it's been a while and I'm not sure where it was. Probably somewhere on Gamasutra.
So first step should be to go to try out potential names on Google. Nobody wants to go through 15 unrelated pages of search in order to find website discussing the game.
You can get away with it if it's a sequel and the main title is a draw, but in a premiere game you want the main title to be descriptive in a straightforward manner. Short and punchy. People's eyes glaze over on long titles and if the cover art doesn't make the save, you've potentially lost a sale.
As I research more about this subject. I realise that you should treat the game as a brand. Here is a very good article-- Game Matters - Name matters, by Scott Miller.
Strong note: Your mileage may vary! What works for us might not be right for you -- everyone's goals are different. But naming our BASE jumping simulator "AaaaaAAaaaAAAaaAAAAaAAAAA!!! -- A Reckless Disregard for Gravity" fit all these criteria and helped us get the word out. Journalists remembered the title; gamers argued over whether they loved the name, or if we were horrible people; it pretty much describes the game; and it got people talking.