I've picked up a HP T5740 to handle this. I've upgraded the RAM to 4GB. It has an Intel Atom 1.6ghz processor
I currently have a Pi as my home "hub". Running scripts and generally helping out. It's not powerful enough for the next step for me which is to run Plex (which is currently running on my NAS) and to be a VPN gateway for devices in my home.
Of decisive importance is the Read/Write-speed of your SD resp. USB-drive. Check your speed with Linux Disks, sits inside every Linux distro. For me both SD and USB3.0 work fine.
2/ Start your live Linux USB (or external CD/DVD). Your live Linux must be up and running before you insert your target SD/USB-drive.
The T5740 is sometimes touchy with bootloaders. I think the internal BIOS does not fully use the standard boot procedure on internal drives.
I'm a web developer who is confident on the command line. Once the command line is there, I am content. I prefer a flavour of Debian. I've set up several Raspberry Pi's in my time and use Linux at work on a daily basis.
As a follow up to this, I decided to utilise a hard drive (the client had the connector to allow me to do this) and purchased a cheap SSD for all my purposes!
There are a few questions here - some specific to the issue above, others general questions that I have. Any answers to any of them would be hugely appreciated.
The computer had 2gb of flash storage as it's "hard drive" which I didn't consider enough for me. I did some googling and found using USB SD card reader was the cheapest, best solution for me at the moment. The computer does have SATA connector, so my plan was to install on an SD card then eventually pick up a STATA -> SD card connector to increase the speed. So I'm currently installing Linux on a16gb SDHC card.
2/ Via BIOS/Default: Linux starts it own bootloader and offers you a dual boot menu: Linux and Windows. I choose this as my default setting.
Additional SD-card or USB2.0 or USB3.0: Linux. Lubuntu fits on 8GB, Mint needs more. I use a 32GB USB3.0-drive.
3/ Partition your target SD/USB and do not forget to install the Linux bootloader on the target SD/USB. If you accept the default value, Linux will install its bootloader on the flash drive and you may get lost.
I couldn't manage to install Linux or Android X86 boot from internal "SSD", but it works from a USB stick.
TLDR: I want to install Linux on a HP thin client, but no matter what I do I get the blinking cursor in the top left.
To install, I have downloaded the bootloader.img onto a USB stick and the ISO onto a second. During installation, the computer is attached to the network to download the further packages required. This all seems to work fine.
2GB Flash: WinXP/SP2, with it own MBR on the Flash-drive, but for reasons of space without (dot).Net/Framework. It took me some puzzling to find and download the required Intel and Realtek-drivers. Now WinXP works fine.
I've attempted to install Debian 9  two times now and both times have resulted in a "successful installation". Upon reboot, I just get the blinking cursor in the top right - which I understand to be an error.