Can I create a DNS server for several sites? Fox example, if I'm managing site1.com and site2.com and site3.com on 111.112.113.114, can I make the machine on that IP the DNS server for all of them, telling the outside world where the www and other subdomains are, where the email goes to and so forth?
It used to be that when I made a new site, I bought the domain name and pointed it to the host's DNS servers and from there I had a web interface that allowed me to do what I wanted with the zone file. Now, all I have is a Linux box with BIND9 on it.
For webhosting, you can do it from Apache. As long as the domains are pointing to your IP address and you're just using 1 machine, you should be able to configure vhosts. Basically, you configure apache to serve up the site content from a different directory for each site. For example, site1.com would be served from /www/site1/, and site2.com would be served from /www/site2/. The apache documentation has some detailed information on how to configure this.
I have a web host system that I love, except for their web interface to administer sites. So I've changed my servers to a new service that is basically only a remote Linux machine. Everything works great except for the DNS.
PS - if you'll write your domain-name here, it will be easier to identify and debug problems with your DNS
I'm no expert in these matters, but I think you can do this all for individual services, without messing with DNS. 
My main domain registrar allows me to specify a "custom DNS server," where I can place the IP for a DNS server. I think I've configured BIND9 correctly on the web server and specified a low TTP, but so far no luck: my test site is still pointing to the old domain. Is what I am trying to do possible?
Yes, you can certainly do this.  The TTL setting you set won't take effect until the next time you make a change - so you need to wait as long as it was previously set for - as well as recognize that unfortunatley, some ISPs refuse to always properly respect these settings.  Yes, this will also work with non-local IPs as long as you have everything configured properly with your domain registrar.  (They actually need to be non-local IPs, given that you're looking to "tell the outside world" - so I'm assuming this isn't only for local testing.)
After this step is done you can check with other DNS servers (eg. GoogleDNS - 8.8.8.8)  to check if your DNS entries are getting propagated.
For mail, you'll want to set an MX entry. Typically this is something you'd set up through your domain registrar.