Apart from recommending you use the Apple Terminal specific Operating System Command escape sequence: ESC ] Ps ; Pt BEL where Ps is 7 and Pt is a file: URL; it's worth adding that in Mac OS X 10.11 (and probably since 10.7) there's a file /etc/bashrc_Apple_Terminal (uneditable under 10.11) which defines the convenient update_terminal_cwd() as (without the comments):
On a related note, Terminal similarly supports setting the "represented file" using the OSC escape sequence with a parameter of 6. If set, the proxy icon will display this instead of the working directory. For example, I have emacs and less configured to reflect the currently displayed file/buffer in the proxy icon. This enables these tty-based programs to be more integrated with the surrounding OS.
Bash solutions involving PS1 and the PROMPT_COMMAND both fail if the directory has Unicode characters in it (at least on Snow Leopard).  The best solution I could come up with was to do the equivalent of 
It's the same Operating System Command (OSC) escape sequence as for the window and tab titles, but with the first parameter set to 7. The value should be a "file:" URL, which enables percent-encoding special characters so it can handle all valid pathnames. You should also include the hostname so Terminal can determine whether it's a local directory; Terminal will avoid using it as the current working directory if it's from a different host.
You could use this on your remote boxes too, in case you were thinking of doing so and then scratching your head on correctly encoding the file URL in bash.
It's also probably worth mentioning that Lion Terminal now supports setting the tab title independently from the window title using the OSC escape sequence.
The first line contains two special characters that can't be copied/pasted, but you can download the text from here: http://blog.nottoobadsoftware.com/files/setterminaltitle.sh.
Assuming you are using the default MAC Terminal, you can use the following one in .profile since "set_prompt" by itself may send you to the root folder when you open a new tab:
And if you change PROMPT_COMMAND in your own .bash_profile or .bashrc you might forget to call this. In the same file they show an example of chaining it a bit better with:
The working directory behaviors are enabled by default for bash (the default shell on Mac OS X). See /etc/bashrc for the relevant code.
As of Mac OS X Lion 10.7, Terminal has an explicit escape sequence for setting the working directory, which Terminal displays using the standard window "proxy" icon. This enables you to Command-Click it to see the path, reveal in Finder, or drag it like any other folder. In addition, Terminal can use this to create another terminal at the same directory, and to restore the working directory when quitting/restarting Terminal (when Resume is enabled). It also enables restoring directories for Window Groups.
This works well for Latin accents, which will be in Unicode NFD (the accents will disappear but the underlying Latin character will remain).