purkki is right. The default browser will run in metro and any other browsers will get switched to desktop mode.  I choose the option to start Chrome in metro and I no longer had controls or anything in there.  I couldn't choose to switch back.  So I made IE the default browser and it switched Chrome back for me so it was useable again.  You can then choose Chrome as your default again if you so desire and it will stay in desktop mode unless you make the same mistake again with the 'start in windows 8 mode.'
I have Windows 8, and I was having a SSL connection error problem that kept showing. Well anyway I accidentally clicked "Relaunch Chrome In Windows 8 Mode" and it did it. It got stuck on there, so I went to this site. What I did was click "relaunch on desktop.", but if you want it more specific
Unfortunately his problem is that it won't launch on a netbook because of resolution. So he can't get it on even to change the mode.
I have the same problem, and what I do instead of trying to open the browser, i open a page from the history and after it gives you the error and you click OK, it opens in desktop mode.
It should take you back to the desktop but if it doesn't then that's okay. By clicking it, it doesn't hurt or harm your computer in any way if you DO try it.
I feel your pain.  This got me so frustrated!  The whole reason I've stuck with PC is because of its sense of structure.  
it used to open in desktop mode from the start page even being the default browser, and one time it asked if i wanted to open in windows 8 mode, i said yes and from that day on i have had that problem.
There's a switch to desktop mode option in your chrome settings button. Select that and it'll close chrome in the metro/modern/windows store app UI, and reopen it in desktop
If it doesn't change at this point, go to the three bars at the top right of your Chrome browser and select "Relaunch Chrome from Desktop".  This should work now that you're in administrator mode.   You can take it one step further and repin the shortcut to your task bar.
Go to the menu (three horizontal lines [used to be a wrench]) and select "Relaunch Chrome on the Desktop"