It's a perimeter defense system, to block out anything that's potentially infected before it gets anywhere near your network.
I'm also strongly of the viewpoint that as well as ensuring no viruses get into your org, you also have a responsibility to ensure that no viruses can get outside your org.  What this means is that if you share data with someone else, in any shape or form, you should play nice and make certain that you don't accidentally infect them.
On the surface it may appear that in your situation there is little point, as firewall based AV software only works with certain type of traffic, mostly email but some also do HTTP. Although you may not be hosting email I'm pretty confident email traffic is flowing through that firewall. e.g. Between your hos and the clients. It therefore follows that having the antivirus software in the firewall scanning that email traffic could block a virus before it reaches the clients (or outside recipients if scanning outbound as well).
For when your laptop users go travelling, connect up to the open wifi at Joe's Diner (or their home networks for that matter), get their laptops full of crap that would otherwise be caught by the desktop A/V you wish you had installed, then bring that back to your network and plug in.
It's a great thing, because anything blocked at the perimeter, you don't have to clean off an end-user's workstation.
For the simple reason that a virus can come in from other sources too.  Somebody could bring in a presentation on a USB stick, for example.  BAM!
Finally, the basic common sense reason is that you have two layers of defence.  No AV solution is 100% effective, so having AV inside as well (and please make sure it's from a different vendor) will at least give you a chance of catching something that slips by your gateway.
Prerimeter security and Endpoint Security. It's like having armed guards on the wall at the military base, but the soldiers also carry guns inside the base. It's best to stop threats at the perimeter because its easy to scan and clean that choke point of the network, but just in case you also want to have the endpoint security if something gets through undetected. Something could get through via encryption, or unauthorized media (CD, usb drive) utilized by a PC user, or other ways as well.