Things ive tried; Memcheck, Un and Re installed the game, updated BIOS, Updated graphics and even re-installed windows.
Once you identify bad hardware, all you can do is replace it. In most cases it is not economical to take a broken GPU and try to fix it, because the time required for a professional with high-end equipment to actually find and fix the problem will exceed the value of the GPU -- unless it's brand new. And if it's brand new, you have a warranty and you should send it back to the manufacturer for repair or replacement. GPUs depreciate too quickly for out-of-warranty repair to be economical, sadly.
If you don't have any friends willing to let you borrow computer parts, you may have to buy them to do these tests. Or, if you know a friendly local computer repair shop, they might let you troubleshoot with their spare hardware and might only charge a small diagnostic fee (if anything), which is much cheaper than buying a new GPU. You could also take your chances on the used market if you want.
As a gross generalization I believe that this sort of issue is very rare on modern desktop graphics cards, but that doesn't mean it can't happen. The only reason it has gotten less frequent is that, for the last few generations, Nvidia and AMD have been investing more QA and stress testing on their products than they used to to ensure their long-term reliability. Of course, if you run a chip too hot, eventually it will break -- it's just a question of when.
I'm only guessing here, but based on the amount of stuff you've tried (even reinstalling Windows), I'm tempted to say that your GPU has suffered a small, localized hardware failure. A tiny part of the GPU itself, the board, or the VRAM is defective in such a way that only specific sequences of graphics draw calls cause it to manifest. It's entirely possible for only a single game to do this. 
The Crash occurs ONLY when i launch OW, it hangs on a black screen and if i have music on in the background it holds a note until the computer BSODs and restarts. The most recent bsod said something along the lines of "clock" and something about my second core?
Not sure if this is related, but i recently got a new Razer Ornata Keyboard, could this be effecting it? Ill run a trial and error and update this post. Update; unplugged keyboard, no change.
So i've built a gaming rig to suit all my gaming needs, and it has for close to 2 1/2 years. Ive been playing OW for about the same time and everything was fine until the recent OW patch. (which is why i think its a problem on their end) Now, i play many games that are more graphically intensive than OW and i've never had a crash with them, DOOM, Fallout 4 and Witcher 3 are just a few examples.
If your GPU is 2.5 years old, it's definitely old enough to start deteriorating in some "early failure" type of way. This is usually more common on laptops where the chips consistently run hotter than on desktops (for example: Macbook Pros have had short-lived GPUs for years), but maybe you just got unlucky.
I had a similar problem about 10 years ago with a much older Nvidia card that was widely known to suffer partial failure effects with age; one specific MMO would display artifacts then crash, but other MMOs and FPS games would run fine. 
For example, if you had a GTX 970 that you suspect is bad, you could borrow a friend's GTX 960 (that they've tested and know it works) and install that in your system just to see if it will work. If it doesn't work, the problem is something else. If it works, then your GTX 970 is bad.
If swapping hardware doesn't fix your problem, then it could still be a software problem -- but given that you've completely reinstalled Windows (and, one assumes, Overwatch), my bet is that you will eventually find defective hardware rather than something software related. Besides, your typical data corruption type of error doesn't cause a BSOD.
Ultimately, without very specialized equipment (most likely an electron scanning microscope and/or x-ray microscope, as well as thousands of dollars of additional microelectronics equipment) there is no way to know for certain what the problem is with your GPU (if one exists) and how/why it happened.
For a usual consumer, unfortunately, the alternative is a simple but often expensive one: when you suspect a part to be "bad", replace it with a new (or at least different but known-working) device with equivalent functionality.
Repeat this process for every imaginable component: motherboard, CPU, RAM, conceivably even something like a WiFi card.
Okay so i posted about this on the OW forums, though it seems like no one there cares. So im posting here just in case its a hardware problem and not an overwatch problem since i seem to be an outstanding case.
This issue could be tough to diagnose, nearly impossible to root cause, and likely expensive to fix if it's what I think it is. Most GPUs have a 1 or 2 year warranty, not 2.5+ years, so it's almost definitely out of warranty unless you have a very good manufacturer who commits to a longer warranty. If you're not covered under warranty and you determine that the problem is with the GPU hardware, you're going to need to buy a new GPU.