As their skills improve, you may also dare show them more than one implementation, possibly in two or more languages. Of course this depends on their actual knowledge of the languages you are going to use. If they know only, say, Java, showing them an additional implementation in another language could backfire and confuse them more.
There are so many ways to accomplish the task, and the actual code just gives the student an example of how to do it.
"Pseudocode as first language" is a terrible idea. Some of the hurdles a newbie programmer faces is to understand that you have to spell everything out, precisely; that the computer does as told, not as it should; the need for variables (and names, and types/structures) to store data; to organize operations into the right order. Most of that can be glossed over in pseudocode, and there is no compiler/test run that shows mistakes.
One of the key points here is that you are teaching to future engineers, even if at academic level. The very nature of engineering is solving problems by implementing a solution. 
Therefore I think that presenting the pseudocode is useful to give your student the correct theoretical POV to frame the problem, BUT showing them an actual, working implementation is key to make them develop their engineering skills. 
Similar to @Vince, I think it's a good practice to do both. I don't really agree with the cooking recipe analogy, though. Pseudocode describes that the algorithm does, without going into detail how you do it.
Of course, I'm assuming that it's not your duty to teach them another computer language, otherwise, it could be a useful approach: start with pseudocode, show a reference implementation in a known language (e.g. Java) and finally show them how to reimplement the algorithm in the new language they must learn.
Much better would be to show them the pseudocode and make them try to come up with an implementation first, then show them yours. But this requires honing their skills first, probably. 
Presenting only the pseudocode might make some of your students loss. Presenting only the actual code would keep them in the box and get them focused too much on the details. A mixture of both would be my choice.
Sure, as a help, as a way of sketching solutions for newbies a sort-of-our-language pśeudocode is useful; later, when they have overcome the first round of obstacles, it is an useful tool for design and communication, and the language can take second row seat.
I think most universities do this already (mine did), but I think the best is pseudocode for the course, and real code for practical exercises.