When I used premade calbes I created a spreadsheet to calculate the vertical length of the run by subtracting the differences in elevation (in U's) and multiplying by 1.75".  I then added 3' for the combined horizontal distance and rounded up to the next standard length (3', 5', 7', 10' etc...)  Of course this only worked for cables terminating in the same rack.
Don't forget that if your server is on sliding rails, you need to give the cables enough slack that you can slide the server out, which is often up to 80cm.
What you're seeing in these beautiful server rooms is the front of the racks. Generally I always mount my switches at the back of the rack, and they never, ever, look as neat as those rooms, nomatter how hard I try or effort I put it.
Crimping patch cables, even if you have your technique down pat, I have never seen take quicker than approximately 90 seconds. Combine that by 100 and you can pop down to your local wholesaler and pick up 100 patch leads with time to spare.
I second Zoredache's comment, making cables leaves a huge margin of error that will be far more difficult and time consuming to do than dealing with a messy server room.
Yes some pros - or their cabling contractors - measure every cable to make it 'just perfect' but most people just round to the nearest metre or half-metre - and they just do it the way you would, with a tape-measure or similar.
Take a look at the LazyTape tool to keep your cables clean. I use it to help me cut custom cables to the right length or find the length of the pre-made patch cable I should use. It saves me a lot of cabling time and having to buy excess cable inventory.
Far more important than making it look nice is a decent labling scheme. There are are good questions about that on here if you do a bit of a search around.
Now to your question, there are fairly standard lengths (10cm, 30cm, 50cm, 1m). You need to find the closest match (that's longer, obviously), and cable tie the bunches together. Given a rack is 19" wide, it's generally less than 19" of "slack" in each cable compared to the longest distance, so hiding that much length to make it appear tidy is usually just as letting the cable sag behind the server by a few cm.
There is no special tool that I've found for figuring out the length you need.  I used pre-made cables on a rack a few months ago and it came out ok; not too messy.  I just finished up another rack and made each cable myself.  I would terminate one end, plug it in and route to the proper switch port.  Add about an inch, cut and terminate.  The manpower is much higher but the finished product is a thing of beauty.  It all depends on how your being paid and what your workload is.