Evan's answer is the best one for 95% of scenarios, but an edge-case solution in an area with heavy RF interference would be to use laser networking products.
Surge supression covers things like the wire, or one building having a local surge (e.g. a lightning hit).
Right now I have two buildings across the street from one another that both have typical consumer aDSL connections (something like 12 Mbs down/1 Mbs up).  When I need to access resources on the other network, I VPN into the other building and do my work.  The problem is that when I'm transferring large files, it's a very slow connection.  And sometimes I'm remotely working with both of those networks so simply walking between buildings with a hard drive is out of the question.
Ask your local ISP about the fiber. They can do a dedicated fiber for you by themselves or at least help you with a laying (don't agree on the rent of course :).
Companies like fSONA offer equipment that allows you to establish highly-reliable links up to a few miles away. These solutions work really well, but are really expensive... I think a previous employer set one of these up a few years ago to establish a network presence in a historic building quickly, because getting the permits/signoffs for cable runs was literally going to take many months, and connectivity had to be established in a small number of days.
It could be pretty cheap and can give you very good speeds. For example in the company I has been working previously, ISP techs made a 300m fiber between our offices in Berlin for about 200 Euros (~300$) onetime fee plus a price of the cable (don't remember but also not very expensive). It is even cheaper than 2 good wireless access points.
If the buildings are literally opposite each other, you could run a cable between the two over a catenary wire. I imagine you will also need assorted permits to install one of those over a public street (I imagine there must be some kind of minimum clearance requirement), but it gives you another option.
Finally, don't forget that you will need to consider a backup in case of a fault, especially as the business grows to depends on the link.
Generally for a "wired" connection between buildings, even close buildings, are optical to avoid all this complexity.
Note, if you use an electrical, rather than radio or optical, link (e.g. string a Cat5 cable), then you need to ensure you have electrical isolation in place on at least one end. And surge suppression on both.
What are some best practices to solve this situation?  I've considered running a fiber link between the buildings, but is that a viable option and what is there to consider when doing that (I imagine a permit from the city would be needed to dig up the street)?  Wireless seems like the obvious choice, but is it reliable, and would I get a significant speed boost?
Two buildings, even next to each other, are likely to have slightly different earth potentials, this can lead to the network wire carrying current you (and the electronics at either end) definitely don't want.