Upgrade your OS.  Windows XP is almost 10 years old, which means it was created before Wi-Fi hotspots were common.
Avoid using public computers for anything sensitive/personal such as checking email, online banking, etc.  Its not your computer, you don't know what's on it, and its simply not secure. Enough said on that one. ;-)
If you want to set up a VPN server using Microsoft products check out their articles on how to do this.  If you're using linux you can also find several free products to set you up with a VPN.
Perhaps the easiest though is to just buy a cheap VPN router or install an IPCop box or something to that effect.  It really depends on your comfort level and skill level.  VPN routers are pretty painless.
For computers that you don't own you should always assume that somebody else will see everything that you view and type.
If you don’t have VPN access make sure you use SSL (HTTPS) whenever you login your email account, bank account, or anything else that's sensitive.  Beware of ARP poisoning as well.
Windows Vista and Windows 7 default to a new network as "public", which locks down the firewall, disables file/printer/media sharing, etc.  Home & work networks can be trusted to allow these features to still work.
Also don't use applications that make use of protocols such as telnet, pop, imap, ftp, etc.  These programs send data without encryption.  Instead you should be using protocols with encryption such as imaps, pops, vsftp, ssh, scp.
I can be a bit slower, depending on where your VPN terminates. But providing you have host authentication to ensure that your VPN endpoint is who they say they are then you can surf safe and sound.
I use OpenVPN, which has a config option called redirect-gateway. This sets the VPN connection as the client's default route and all traffic will be sent through the remote network.
If a service/protocol does not use encryption, an SSH tunnel can also be useful and easier to setup that a full-blown VPN.
If you need to use loads of different services over the net, a VPN is probably the easiest solution. If you need just one service (a certain website, some remote login), it's probably easier to use application-level encryption, such as HTTPS or SSH.