In all production machines I would either get a hardware RAID-controller, or just drop the RAID altogether. The hardware RAID controller (such as HP's SMART controllers) are expensive, but for the performance and safety they provide it's by far worth it.
But as a developer or systems administrator, I prefer having a RAID-0 array of atleast two high-speed drives like Velociraptors (helped by a cheap RAID controller like a built-in Intel ICH10 as you can't boot from software RAID-0) for booting Windows and running applications.
If you need raw speed on your workstation, get Solid-State drives for the OS. Get a second 10k rpm drive for data. Do backups ALL the time, to your second drive or to external storage. At home I've dropped all RAID-configs and bought a Windows Home Server for data and backups. Works like a charm and is by far the cheapest solution I can think of. Plus it has many other benefits, so it would just as easily serve a small business! (<10 clients)
Raid 0 is not mirroring - it is striping. There is no redundancy, if one disk fails you lose everything. Raid 1 is mirroring. You don't get anywhere near twice the speed in practice.
It is also comparable to the increased response of substituting it for say an Intel X25M SSD - but at more than twice the price for about the same productivity increase, it doesn't feel like a good deal just yet unless it's a laptop that can't accept two+ 10krpm+ drives ^^
I think the improvements are often negligible, and the question you ought to be asking is whether or not any speed increase is likely to be worth the risk; by striping you're saying that if either of those hard disks fails then your computer will no longer work until it is rebuilt. 
In my opinion using software RAID is a solution you should avoid if at all possible. Sure, it's built-in to the OS so the price is right, but software mirrors (RAID1) and stripes (RAID0) are fragile and low-performing at best. 
A third separate data disk is used for my working copy / source code and I always commit changes at least each day to the central repository - often many times (after each individual fix or feature). For the purists making it a mirror won't hurt. Also make sure you can quickly restore the operating system and applications in some way - like a good deployment solution in place or a working image of it stored somewhere.
How much of a problem would that be for you and is that worth the (likely small) increase in speed you'll see overall?
The hardware RAID controller will offload your main CPU, so performance is excellent. They support hot-swapping disks, hot-spare disks and RAID-migration, should you decide that your initial RAID level wasn't right for you. They can also support battery-backed write-caching, so that if your computer loses power, writes on their way TO the diskset will be maintained and written once power is restored, to avoid dataloss. All these benefits will definitely help you out.
This greatly increases Windows response during multi-tasking and other heavy I/O-loads like linking, installing patches and generally using the machine like a "power user".
So, RAID-0 helps a lot (imho) and is a cost-effective way of boosting your computer's performance. But you should also first make sure you're using the fastest cpu you can have and the latest motherboard platform (chipset) with a decent amount of matching memory - because a faster cpu will always help, no matter what people say.