When you install windows all these things are put in place automatically.  They do not get copied over with the files when you copy them from one disk to another.
This is called the "boot sector".  This data is read and then executed as a small program.  It is then up to this program to then load the "boot loader" - more advanced than the boot sector, but still along way from windows.
There is a lot more to booting an operating system than simply having a bunch of files on the disk.  There's a reserved bunch of blocks at the start of the disk that contain some special boot instructions which tell the computer how to boot.
You will need to reinstall windows afresh on the new drive, and then copy your data across from the old drive.  Just copy the data - not windows or your programs (they will need reinstalling from scratch again).
If your old hard drive isn't dead yet... I would highly recommend you look at a tool like clonezilla or Symantec Ghost to clone your hard drive.  It will correctly copy the special bits of the drive that are needed to boot, as well as resizing the volume to fill the entire disk.
It's not uncommon for Lenovo's to have the licence there, i've also seen licences under the hard drive enclosure (requiring taking the HDD out to view) but that wasn't a Lenovo :)
You can't find the licence on a label on the bottom of the laptop... Because it's hidden under the Battery!
You can use a Linux liveCD and use the dd command (or ddrescue) and make a bit-for-bit copy.  Not terribly complex, just be sure you don't mix your drives up.  :)
The disk must be prepared properly.  It requires certain data to exist in certain places of the drive.  Namely, the boot sector and boot loader.
The computer by itself is incapable of loading windows.  All it is capable of loading is 512 bytes from the very beginning (block 0) of the hard drive.
if you want to find the product key of your windows 7 installation you can install the everest software and in the operating system section it will tell you product key and product id both.
if you can boot from your old hard drive only once and able to install everest then you can get your product key.