Local disk storage is definitely a way to go. A drive enclosure with easily swapped drives is probably your best bet considering your cost constraints. If you can live with that data offline, then go for it. Disks are cheap, and disk-enclosures are cheaper than tape drives. Fewer moving parts.
Have you considered hosted services?  I am not sure how the price weighs up, but you may want to consider a hosting service that sells bulk storage.  Maybe AWS?
I'm going to assume this is largely for offline backup type storage: easily created and restored, but not heavily used in day-to-day operations.
If you really love your data, (if this is truly important production data, you should!), you could build a duplicate server, and backup the backup.  You can do this with an rsync crontab, which might be horribly slow, a netcat/tar pipe solution, which would be faster to be sure, or set up the raid devices as the base of a drbd device.  With the storage duplicated across both machines automatically, you've (essentially) guaranteed to have redundant backups of the data.  You can get even fancier and set up a heartbeat failover system to guarantee availability of your data volume.
I'm assuming you're needing this for archive, not active usage in a video role. If it is, that's a different storage problem.
I got a terastation 1tb version which I have upgraded to 4tb, it works flawlessly in RAID5 for me. You could look at buying a smaller version and upgrading it yourself to save some money - or buy multiple terastations etc..
The LTO4 drives we use can cram in 800GB per tape. The downside is the cost of the drives themselves. If you balked at the $5K for Blu-Ray disks, you're not going to like the cost of LTO4. On the other hand, the cartages themselves are pretty cheap on a per-GB basis so you can keep a lot of copies. These tapes have a good shelf-life, but you do need to plan to move them to new media as you replace your tape drive. From how you describe how you're going to use this storage, I don't think tape is a good fit. Not unless this is going to be a backup solution instead of an archive solution. Different problems.
You might want to consider some kind of cloud based backup vendor for this, if your daily net-change is small enough. Of course, this depends on how beefy your Internet connection is, and restoring from it could be equally painful. These services are pretty new, so its unknown how they handle the bankruptcy problem for your data; what happens to it if they go out of business?
If you really want to make sure you won't lose it, then you want at least two archive options. Probably tape and hard drives. Making just one copy without some form of redundancy is just another way of rolling the data dice.
2TB drives can be had for about $140 these days.  So, for 10TB, 5 drives, $700.  Figure about $400 to build a semi-low-powered server around that running Debian or Ubuntu or some other Linux flavour.  If you get a system with multiple NICs you can bond the network interfaces together to (potentially, I believe you need a managed switch that supports trunking) increase the available bandwidth the server has, and protect against NIC failures.  You can then expose the storage via samba, NFS, or some other method to the workstations that need to be using it.  For this large a data volume, you'll probably want some sort of redundancy so that when (not if) one of these drives bites it, you wont be without your data.  RAID5 is not a good idea here, for several reasons, but RAID10 fits the bill.  Since the server is running Linux, you can use mdadm to manage the RAID array.  You'll need to double the number of physical devices to do this, so you're up to 10 drives.  Total cost of this storage server: ~$1800 plus the sweat equity in building it and administering it.