Of course it's hackable; all software is.  To be a little bit more specific, every instance in the OS where data is written to a memory location is a potential buffer overrun vulnerability, and that's just for starters.
All you can ever do with systems in my opinion is make it harder, slower and with more chance of you finding out that your being hacked so you can do something to stop it.
Slicehost images are likely different than a normal default Ubuntu install; mostly in the form of less stuff installed, so it should mostly have less vulnerabilities. There are tools out there to email you when patches are available for installed packages, so you can keep on top of patching. Ubuntu takes a number of steps to slow attackers, but it's still easy to install extra stuff that abuses your host. 
Is there such a thing an non hackable software or systems?  It depends entirely on the amount of time and effort the hacker is willing to invest in finding a way in, and how long you let them try before sicking the dogs on them.  Given enough time and resources, even the system in the basement in the safe is eventually hackable.  It might need some serious hardware to do it.. but it can be done.
At a minimum, I'd make sure that packages you choose to install have Ubuntu repositories for security updates, upstream reporting and announcement facilities and an active maintainer.
The default installs these days are pretty good, and as already stated, stopping anything running that you don't need and performing the usual common sense tasks with passwords and user permissions etc will make it harder.. but never assume your safe (especially on a windows box, as a windows admin I'm amazed you would ever assume that you are safe).
That said, Ubuntu with the software firewall on and no services enabled is as unbroken as they can make it. I know of nothing that a fully updated install has as a known vulnerability.
Depends on what you mean by "hacker proof". Bad passwords will always leave something vulnerable, as does bad code in applications you may install from third parties, and there may be vulnerabilities being fixed upstream and not in the repo's yet.
Nothing is ever hacker proof, bar the oft mentioned computer plugged out in a basement behind a locked door, in a safe. The default Ubuntu install, if fully up to date should have no known vulnerabilities however. You probably want to install fail2ban or something to prevent easy brute force attacks, but other than that it's pretty good. Obviously, you'll have to keep up to date as well, and it's always worth taking some care in configuration (i.e. don't have mysql running on an external ip if it's not needed, and have it firewalled if it is. Don't have services you don't need running. The usual things). The defaults however should be at least as secure as the windows default, assuming you remain up to date.