You can always find an 25 pin Zip/Jaz drive on craigslist or ebay.  However, there are better methods than this.  :)
Checking the back of the computer, I noted 1 built-in serial port, a parallel port in an expansion slot, and somewhat inexplicably, a NIC with a jack in it too big to be RJ-11. I didn't test if it was actually a RJ-45 as I didn't have an ethernet cable handy at the time. However, the two program files that I would have used (according to my research) to use the serial are nowhere to be found on the computer. Furthermore, I haven't the slightest idea what I would do to leverage the NIC.
Furthermore complicating issues, just pulling the HDD has to be relegated to a last resort, as the computer (which is older than I am) is used for daily business operations and would have to be taken offline for around 1 day due to the distance between the computer and me, which the "client" does not particularly want.
It's only 3 megs, so using a PKZIP with spanning would be the easiest solution, as others have said. However 
To use a serial port, you need  a DOS terminal program, and you would run it then use a protocol like ZMODEM, to transfer the file at 115kbps, which should take you less than 5 minutes at 115200 kbps.  
So the crux of my question is, with my almost none existent skill in DOS (I accidentally corrupted one of the "databases", and would have been in bad shape if I didn't make a backup beforehand), is there a simple way I can leverage the above-mentioned assets (or something else I don't know about DOS) to get this 3 meg file off of the computer without pulling the HDD?
If you had such a problem and the floppy drive did NOT work, using the serial port would be pretty easy. 
File Maven is a file tranfer utility that enables you to do transfers via serial or parallel cable.  You probably don't have anything else with a serial port around anymore, so a serial-to-usb adapter will give you a connection to modern technology.
Before the vaunted days of ubiquitous USB chips and a NIC in every computer I remember fondly hooking up two computers with serial and parallel cables for large-scale data transfers.
I want to stand up and give a big round of applause to whichever manufacturer was responsible for the hard drive.  25 year old HDD still running.  Can you imagine today's SATA drives still running in 2038?
I'm very weak with actual MS-DOS, and older hardware in general, but after some fuddling around I finally found the file that the lawyer needed. The issue comes that the customer "database" (read: space delimited text file) is ~3MB big. This is too big for one floppy, and the data is in one single file, which, to my very limited knowledge of actual DOS, would preclude me splitting it with the built-in programs on the computer. 
I had to google the most convenient method in the current age, but it looks kind of similar to what I remember.
On your laptop, or any other modern PC, you would need a USB-to-serial adaptor, and a null modem cable, and a terminal program that supports the same file transfer protocol.  These cables should set you back about $5 each at most decent computer stores.
As part of some sort of legal record-keeping thing, my father's business lawyers has requested a copy of the database of customers from a work computer. The core issue is that this work computer is a circa 1988 AOpen...thing, running what looks to be a modified version of DOS 5.0.