JS mentions number theory. Fermat is credited with the Fermat primality test, a probabilistic algorithm which dates to the 1600s and serves as a precursor to more modern primality tests such as Solovay-Strassen and Miller-Rabin. [it would take a historian specializing in math & number theory to try to pinpoint exactly what Fermat knew about it versus modern knowledge which is much more complete about the structure of its pseudoprimes (false positives) etc.]
In a 1917 paper, H. C. Pocklington discussed an algorithm for finding sqrt(a), modulo p, which depended on choosing elements at random to get a nonresidue of a certain form.  In it, he said, "We have to do this [find the nonresidue] by trial, using the Law of Quadratic Reciprocity, which is a defect in the method.  But as for each value of u half the values of t are suitable, there should be no difficulty in finding one."
Using oracles (e.g. chicken bones, stones) to decide on where to hunt can be seen as a randomized algorithm. One can argue that randomizing the hunting grounds prevents game adaption and overhunting. 
one of Einsteins 1905 "miracle" papers was on brownian motion, a classic physical example of a random walk and yields a formula (ie, basically an algorithm, if the physical process is the "computer") for estimating/calculating particle (molecule) diameter given other known physical constants and the observation/measurement of the (random) particle displacement over time. this paper also served as early theoretical/experimental/foundational evidence for the atomic theory of matter.
The Metropolis–Hastings algorithm was published in 1953 and dates back earlier to the Manhattan project, long before Rabin. Like many of the early randomized methods given in other answers, it is a Monte Carlo algorithm.
Is it possible that the claim on the Wikipedia page is a garbled form of the claim that Rabin's was the first Las Vegas algorithm?
Buffons needle algorithm for estimating $\pi$, basically a Monte Carlo method, dates to publication in 1777. note that Monte Carlo methods date to the 1940s with the US "Manhattan" atom bomb project & were coinvented by Ulam, Von Neumann, and Metropolis.