The reason I unfortunately have to do this is because I've set up a local LAMP server on which i've built all my sites, apps, version control and databases.  Having a local LAMP on the drive also means I can work without interruption while travelling in places without a reliable (and/or secure) network.
Copying one of their iso's onto your SSD drive and using grub to launch it (similar to instructions here) should work, if you have unusual hardware that isn't detected properly in a "regular" Linux install as DrMoishePippik's answer suggests.
Most standard Linux distros will allow you to do this - provided they are the same architecture (eg Both are Intel 32bit or 64bit machines).  
My distro of choice is Ubuntu, but I'm confident Redhat based installs will do the same thing - anything where you don't need to compile a custom kernel should work.
To accommodate the 2.5" HDD in the 3.5" Mac Pro drive bays I use a Icy Dock EZConvert 2.5-Inch to 3.5-Inch SATA SSD / Hard Drive Converter.  It pulls out within seconds (after powering off the Mac Pro of course) and the SSD slides out of the Icy Dock housing without screws or other attachments.
The swap takes ~5 minutes - the slowest part is removing / reinstalling the screws from the back of the Macbook Pro to get at the SSD.
If you're using Mac OS (Say, a Macbook Pro and a Mac Mini) this can be done fairly easy, if both PC's support the installed OS version, you will need to press the alt key when the computer turns on for the first time you move the SSD, but after that it will boot directly.
However, Windows to Go is only available for Windows 8 Enterprise, which isn't available to normal consumers.
With Windows is another story, Vista and earlier versions installs can be moved to another hardware configuration only if the platform is the same (AMD x86, AMD64, Intel x86_64) but sometimes it can trigger the "Pending activation" state (I used to move my HDD from Laptop to another and this happened only once), and you could have trouble reactivating the licence. If Windows can find the drivers it will install them automatically, if not you will have to install them but just one time.
Since the SSD used in the desktop + laptop is the boot drive, it contains the OS - the only inconvenience I've encountered is having to re-enter all my iTunes, messaging/FaceTime and some email passwords each time the drive changes hardware.
It sounds like author of the question requires Windows.  The only legal solution I know of that allows you to use the same Windows installation on different hardware is Windows to Go.
While version control could make it possible to switch between machines without swapping drives, all the uncommitted changes are not present on the cloud - as well as differences in database structure and data.  I'm still hoping for a day when hand-off between machines is as painless as checking your email in the cloud.
You could run a live Linux iso like Linux Mint, Ubuntu, Debian, or Knoppix (it's more like a live-dvd-only and says "Knoppix is not a Linux distribution like for example Debian, openSUSE, Ubuntu or others", but has many "install" options), there are many others that can run live also, most with persistence to save changes.
The issue you may have to replicate this with more modern machines is that the SSDs in the latest Apple laptops are not removable.  On a positive note, the older gear I'm describing is rather cheap  these days.
Linux typically packs all the common drivers you might need as modules as part of the intitial boot process, and there is no "system lock in" to check if the hardware is the same as previous boots.
I have, on multiple occassions, pulled drives out of 1 system, plugged them into another and everything just worked.   In fairness, I do try and keep my hardware fairly standard (intel chipset motherboards with intel CPU) which makes it that much simpler, but certainly this can work on more diverse hardware.   
It depends on which OS you are using, Linux based OS'es have no trouble whit this, unless the new hardware configuration have a device with no drivers available, specially with the GPU (At least on the already installed OS). I have a USB hard drive with an emergency Ubuntu installed on it and most of the computers I've plugged it booted successfully, the ones who didn't was because of resources limitation (RAM, CPU and so).