The best workaround I can think of is to set up 2 power-profile shortcuts, and remember to swap between them before & after watching video.  It's hack, but it should work. Now all I need to do is figure out how to kick this in from across the network, when we're streaming from the DVR.  ;) 
I suspect there's some arcane reason that apps don't inherently have access to the power-saving settings, or it'd be a big no-brainer for Windows Media Player to have a "disable power saving" switch.
I consider Firefox's behavior undesirable, as I seldom watch long YouTube videos, and I don't want every message notification from Facebook Chat to turn my screen on.  The behavior can be changed by using a powercfg -REQUESTSOVERRIDE command, like this:
Disable this "power saving feature" as it becomes counter productive whenever it turns off your displays while you're in the middle of watching a video/movie. Instead turn off your monitor and other displays using the power button on the display whenever you go AFK.
In power options the monitor is configured to turn off (go to power saving mode) after 10 minutes of inactivity. The problem is it also turns itself off when I watch long YouTube videos in full screen.
Maybe it depends on the browser and the operating system, but I can tell you that using Firefox 32.0.1 in Windows 7 64-bit, whenever a sound is played by the Flash plugin, it prevents the display from turning off.  This can be seen by running powercfg -requests while a sound is playing (run cmd.exe as an administrator before typing the command):
Two things are shown in this example output.  It's the firefox.exe process under DISPLAY: that is preventing the display from turning off.  The sound playing through the audio driver prevents the system from going to sleep.
I like power saving, so the default behavior is OK, but it shouldn't kick in when I watch fullscreen videos.
Maybe power saving looks for apps running in full screen mode but does not find any, because it's only the plug-in that's in full screen. Can you try setting the display mode of the browser to full screen (not maximized) before playing the video und check what happens then? Both Firefox and IE have full screen display modes.