From my personal experience in a game design education, what really matters isn't the specific degree, but your dedication to learning and improving your programming skills and demonstrating your talents. I've met a lot of people with degrees not specifically game deign oriented like fine arts, networking, and computer science, who apply them in the industry. I say find a school that teaches you what you'd like to learn, then apply those skills to making a game by yourself or with friends. It will demonstrate your technical skills along with passion for video games.
From Digipen students I have talked to they are very hard core game programming from the very beginning with industry focused skills like C++, OpenGL, and DirectX.
I'm not trying to say it's impossible to land a good job as a game programmer with a CS degree but sadly a CS degree will be the least impressive thing on your resume.
If you ever want to blow an interview or any chance at a game programming job, just say your primarily a Java programmer.
My only concern with getting a gaming-specific degree is that it might hinder you from getting out of the industry and into another programming field if you ever had the need to (bad gaming economy, given the choice to re-locate or lose your job/get another programming job in the area, etc.).  A computer science degree is more generic and well rounded and should let you be able to get into about any field of programming.  You're most likely going to have job training no matter where you end up anyways.
Having a good general software engineering background is always the best way to go. I was one of the first students through RPI's game studies program (as a minor, major was still CS) and I would say I have gotten about 10x the practical value out of the non-game-related classes. As Tetrad says, the bigger issue is if you are a good programmer regardless of degrees or titles. I think at one point about 1/3 of our software team here didn't have a university degree. At least with RPI's game development classes it was mostly an excuse to get more experience building games which I probably would have done in my spare time anyway. A good, formal game design class is definitely worth looking in to though, mostly so you know more of the terminology used in the industry ("MDA", "system dynamics", "prisoner's dilemma", etc). Few schools offer a good software engineering program, so CS/Games might be the best you can do, but be sure to pay attention to things like OS and network programming too or it will most surely come back to bite you.
If you go for a Game Development Degree just know they don't hold much steam in normal programming positions.  Having said that, Digipen is probably the best program you could do.  They have very good relations with Valve and their student projects have won multiple IGF awards yearly.
Having said all of that, a CS degree definitely won't hurt.  Just expect to be spending every spare moment working on side projects and creating an awesome portfolio.  Those two things will land you your job.  The CS degree is more of a safety net in case you end up not liking 100+ hr crunch times which last for 6 month periods =) (that's a bit extreme but not that uncommon)
If on the other hand you decide you want a more general Computer Science degree it will prepare you for general programming which is definitely not enough to land a good job as a games programmer.  Even worse a lot of schools are trending toward teaching Java as their language of choice.