In your code, as much as possible, good naming should make it clear what is going on. Where it doesn't (or where you have to do something very un-intuitive for necessary reasons), leave a comment explaining what's going on and why.
Also, for the kind of logic checks you're making, you can see some performance gains by making a mathematical comparison for equivalence. You can stop proceeding further if any two of your indices are equal. If any of the indices are equal, then a longer (and quicker) equation with your indices could easily tell if any are equal if the result is zero.
Usually I would go through an exhaustive list of things your code needs to fix with examples. Here, I'm just going to tell you everything, and then rewrite your code once using all the things I mention.
Accessing worksheet objects is incredibly slow. And you're doing it everywhere. Read your sheet data into Arrays, and then read from the arrays. It is at least 100x faster.
Okay, your code is incredibly difficult to understand. Even with your explanatory description, I spent a good 10 minutes figuring out what your code is trying to do.
Use Descriptive, unambiguous, naming. I should be able to read a variable and instantly know what it is and what it's doing. I recommend the Excellent, Classic article on naming by Joel spolsky on that subject.
You've done this a little with CheckFlag but you need to do it ruthlessly to make really good code. Anything that reasonably can be abstracted away/compartmentalised should be.
I have not profiled your code loop vs the loop below for execution time, but logically your code loop has to proceed to the innermost level before making any checks. 
Use them. Write a paragraph at the top of your sub describing what it's doing and why. Describe your outcomes. Describe how you're going to get there. 
A Dictionary is a list of keys and items. Each key is unique and corresponds to exactly one item. So, if you fill  a dictionary with (key = salary, item = id) then to get the ID of a salary, all you have to do is ID = Dictionary.Item(Salary)