Yes, use a disk backup system as well as the tape. Store atleast a few revisions back on the disk system and when you do the tape backups as you say, you do them from the disk backup system and not from the production servers themselves.
What you describe as your current arrangement is not an off-site backup, it is an off-server backup. By my reading your backup server is in the same facility, probably the same rack, as the servers it is holding backups for.
1.5Tb of data flowing every night, if you go for a really-off-site-server backup option, is not going to be cheap (you'll need that much bandwidth at both sites) so tapes might be the better option for you. I suggest you do at least a cursory cost/benefit analysis to be sure though. Tapes also have the advantage of being an offline backup - if someone manages to hack in and wipe both a server and its online backup (as happened over at webhostingtalk.com recently) they won't be able to touch the offline backup (the tapes).
Sounds like a good plan but also consider using some form of cheap'ish disk-based backup such as a 2/3/4/5-disk Thecus NAS or similar, then back up the data from that onto tape. That way you can restore more quickly if needed and also get the backup done and dusted more quickly to allow your servers to get on with their own work while allowing for off-site tapes to be made at leisure.
Storing several revisions on the disk system makes it very easy to rerun a tape job should the robot or tape fail (which they tend to do more often than you think).
You should certainly have some form of physically separated backup, i.e. tapes or a really-off-site backup (i.e. a server in another facility), in case a one-in-a-million accident or hack happens to affect all the servers in your rack at the same time.
And of course, restoring data from the disk system is much faster and easier - it could have a user tool/portal so users can restore files themselves...
In either case keep the local backup server instead or replacing it with tapes and/or a server elsewhere - it will be quicker to restore from if you ever need to, and you can use it to co-ordinate the backups instead of each server talking to the other resource separately.
And remember:  if you can't restore from a backup, you didn't back up.  Check your tape backups frequently.  Ideally, do a restore to a clean test system every now and then, to make sure you're getting everything you need.  There's plenty of horror stories out there about backups that weren't.
One thing an automated tape system can't do for you is send tapes off-site.  Make sure you keep backups sufficiently separated that you can't lose too much in one incident too small to kill the company.
Both off-site and on-site solutions can be on-line or off-line, with offsite+offline offering greatest protection and onsite+online giving the most efficient backup+restore processes.