- use something like Touchpad Elite to remote control a PC on the network (we use this as our HTPC remote -- you could also control an Apple TV)
Regardless of what hardware you end up using, I would suggest going with at least Windows Vista or 7. I currently have an HP TouchSmart tablet convertible running Vista and I love it. I can use my fingers or the included pen. But what I really love about having Vista on my tablet is that that it already has a lot of great utilities and gesture recognition that makes using the convertible as a table a breeze. If you were to use XP instead of Vista or 7, you would need to use separate applications to get the same feature set.
This doesn't really answer your question but it's solving the same problem from a different angle so I thought I'd share. Also, I guess if there are multiple people using it, then its portability becomes its weakness: you might go to use it and not be able to find it.
With apps available for note-taking (Evernote, Things), calendar management (built-in), mail (built-in, Gmail), photo management (various Flickr apps), internet radio (Pandora, Shoutcast), you'd have plenty of software available and good options for syncing in a multi-PC (or iPod Touch!) environment.
Have you considered using a "regular" PC, with a separate touchscreen monitor?  I've considered a project like this, and the best solution I've come up with is a wall-mounted (probably on an arm from Ergotron) touchscreen LCD, with a small form factor case hidden away in the back of a cabinet.  I'd probably pair all of that with a slim wireless keyboard and mouse that can be stashed in a cabinet as well when not in use.
You'd be saving a ton of time, money, and effort, and would be getting a superbly designed and flexible device with an operating system and applications that are actually designed for touch input.
I was totally going to setup something like this, then I bought a netbook (the Dell Mini 9 to be precise) and put Ubuntu on it. Then I realised that I didn't really want a dedicated kitchen walltop because it was stuck in the kitchen all the time. With the netbook I can take it with me in to the next room when I'm done in the kitchen and I'm not stuck eating my dinner standing up in the kitchen because I wanted to finish the podcast I was listening to.
It is, however ARM based, so you'll have to chuck the notion of Windows (or Hackintosh) however it'd be perfectly suited - most of what you want to do should be possible with a thin, web-client.
Granted, you'd be losing some screen real-estate (you could use the video output to address this, though), and there aren't any webcam solutions yet, but those might be small prices to pay for the ease and flexibility of the iPod Touch.
Also, you might have some problems with Chrome and gestures. Although I tend to use Firefox more then Chrome regularly, I've been forced to use it more in my tablet because Chrome does not recognize the the scroll up/down gestures. Sure, it's not a big thing, but I do find that doing the gestures for scrolling to be far more natural then using the scroll bar in a touch interface. 