When it crashes, run your fingers over the hardware and touch all parts. If anything is so hot you remove your fingers instantly, it is too hot. Maybe use one of those touch-free thermometers. Also, the part with the photo of Elkos is a good idea. Asrock used a lot of cheap components. 
Do a system check. First and easy is memtest86+. Download the current release, burn and boot the CD. If the computer runs more than an hour with that, start looking for other stuff. Try having the computer run 48hrs on memtest in the end.
If it is rebooting without a BSOD or other error being displayed, you could investigate the Windows Crash Recovery settings which may give more clues. I had nVidia driver issues once which were causing exactly these sort of random reboots.
Boot from a Live-Linux CD. Does that run stable? If yes, grab another hard disk. We´re on superuser here, you have a couple of disks lying around, havent you? Make a fresh install. Make a test after each installation step. 
I had this happen to me just this weekend.  It turned out to be my video card.  The card was not overheating or anything apparent.  I swapped out the card for an old one I still had and all the issues stopped.
I've had a similar problem in the past with my P4.  What fixed it for me was replacing the "goo" that sits between the CPU and the heat sink.  In my experience, the CPU never got all that hot, but the temperature would spike and cause a shutdown.  The goo that came with the CPU had essentially dried out over the years and was no longer making much of a connection.  It had a vaguely voodoo feeling to it, but I picked up a $10 tube of the pretty good stuff at Fry's, reattached the heat sink and the the problem went away.
Right click on my computer > Properties > Select the 'Advanced' tab > and under 'startup and recovery' click the 'settings' button. This will open a new window, and under the 'System Failure' heading, uncheck 'Automatically restart.'
From what you tell, my first guess is the system gets too hot. Thats not just the CPU, but any part like the RAM, the power converter, stuff like that. 