IP addresses are much the same.  Just because I like the IP address 8.0.6.3 , and just because nobody else happens to be using it right now, doesn't mean that packets addresses to 8.0.6.3 will get to me.
Still that wasn't sufficient to prevent breakage. One famous example was when a Pakistani provider claimed to own the IP addresses of YouTube. For a large number of users YouTube was offline. At that point complaining about the situation through the proper channels get a normal situation restored.
Long story short, BGP is based on implicit trust, and any route advertised is generally accepted as correct by its peers in the BGP network. One notable example of this going horrifyingly wrong is when Pakistan decided it wanted to block Google some years back. Routes that were intended to be a BGP blackhole internal to the country were mistakenly advertised publicly, causing much of the world's Google traffic to be directed at Pakistan, taking the Google, and the PK ISP, offline.
What is happening now is that cryptographic methods to validate BGP announcements are slowly being adopted. This happens through information known as Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs).
Note on the comments on the question: What @Sven means is that you shouldn't even use the phrase "Class A/B/C" as it refers to rigid, long-obsolete practices. If you want to be taken seriously by networking nerds you need to use CIDR notation, ie: '/8' instead of 'Class A'
Obviously you can be telling other AS incorrect information about which IP addresses are on your network. If two AS claim to have the same IP addresses, neither will be able to use those IP addresses to communicate with all of the internet.
What if an ISP screwed up and tried to assign an IP address which was not in its allocated range? What would happen?
Now, I know that ICANN issues these addresses and I also know that you can't really use an IP you're not assigned because DHCP on the ISP's side simply wouldn't give you one. However, I don't understand the hierarchy: how are the ISPs prohibited from not assigning random IPs to others and how is the USPS barred from using an IP address which doesn't belong to it?
I know that a lot of companies were initially assigned IP addresses within the /8 (Class A) range and a lot still have these addresses assigned to them (e.g. the USPS).
If ISP A assigned one of their users an IP address in ISP B's network not much would happen aside from that user's internet not working. Within the ISP's network there's not liekly to be any routing information for that network, so even if someone within ISP A's network wanted to talk to this rogue address it'll get passed up through the gateways to a core router and tossed off into the internet according to its BGP routes. Even if there were routing information in ISP A's network for the bad netblock communication with the internet would be basically impossible.
In this context the networks are known as autonomous systems, to get an initial understanding it is a good enough approximation to imagine that an AS and an ISP is the same.
BGP is fundamentally different from DHCP in that you don't tell somebody what their IP address is. You tell somebody what your own IP addresses are.
DHCP is of very little relevance to this question. With DHCP the ISP can tell the customer, what the address of the customer is. But between ISPs it works differently. Between ISPs communication about who has which IP addresses is done using BGP.
You cannot just declare that your ZIP code is 60605-3234 because you like the number.  That number is assigned to a specific block of houses somewhere in Chicago, IL.  If you put that ZIP code on your mail as your return address, you will never get any mail.
With a suitable amount of network and computing horsepower someone could ostensibly poison BGP routes on a global scale, intercept and store traffic, and forward that traffic back out to its intended destination transparently. Something something NSA.
Initially BGP was based on mutual trust. Then semi-automatic filters got introduced to eliminate obviously incorrect IP prefixes being announced through BGP.