Basically, the third point is the problematic issue with getting Windows file sharing working over a serial connection.
If you have an old computer with 2 serial ports, you could slap Linux on that, connect each system to the intermediary computer, start up ppp (with the Windows chat text support) on each serial port, make sure ipv4 forwarding is enabled, and it would work well.
case 4. However activating a full fledged network layer suite of software (TCP/IP) on a serial port (SLiP) can again provide client services such as telnet.
While it is also possible to establish a file sharing network connection, this does not allow arbitrary processes to be started on the host from the client. It does allow clients to surf host folders and "view" their contents but this does not provide for the capabilities that telnet does as quoted in the original post.
Abstractly, once a physical connection is made, installation of networking support is optional which dictates the final suite of compatible software the host and client run.
It showed a two paned window with the local file system on one side and the other system on the other.
Today's microcomputers often lack RS232 9 pin (let alone 25 pin) interfaces but Ubuntu seamlessly supports common USB to 9 pin serial adapters. Currently, a circa 1980 Atari ST with a 25 pin serial port is connected to a 2011 model netbook with only USB serial ports using such an adapter with a 25 to 9 pin adapter and a null modem adapter. The Atari came with a VT52 terminal emulator accessory to control a Lucid getty to start gkermit. The VT52 emulator is then stopped and the Atari version of kermit is then run to complete file transfers.
The suite of software that the host and client can use depends on the networking software needed. Programs like many kermit versions are oblivious to the manner in which machines connect as long as a physical connection exists, arbitrarily able to navigate most network layers,. This is not the case with gkermit which does require getty support though TCP/IP networking is not needed. And some programs like a legacy Atari kermit can only use a raw physical connection devoid of any networking software.