Firstly, the optical sensor needs to be clean and free of grease (including invisible fingerprints), fluff and hair - on the outside and inside.  This goes not just for the bit that lights up, but the sensor.
I sometimes have two mice plugged into my computer, both optical - one for when I'm at my desk, and a second for when I'm watching netflix from bed. Sometimes I forget to unplug my bedside mouse.
PS don't bother searching microsoft's knowledge base, those terms aren't very helpful, its better if you just type in your video card makers name or the overall driver maker like Nvidia or ATI or Geforce ... with the name of the card identified and "mouse problem" and you'll usually find lots of stuff... or google: video driver causes mouse problem
If you were remote-controlled, many more strange things happened (e.g. targeted mouse-movement or flickering on your screen). 
Drivers have these issues, and when they are problematic enough to effect enough people or enough situations are seen where the problem is linked back to said driver, the product manufacturer comes out with a Driver Update.
It's easy to test for this possibility -- simply hold the mouse steady while you flex the cable near it, and look for any motion of the cursor.
I also experienced the same phenomena using a normal wired, optical Logitech-Mouse. Even if I was not connected to a network this happened. Changing the mouse made it better for a while.
lots of stuff out there.  I've had this happen off and on, most recently its been happening less after I updated my video driver (nvidia) to the most current.  In just 5 months the Nvidia drivers went from ver.266.58 to ver.280.26.  While they may not have released to the public 14 versions, that's the minimum they went through in 5 months time.  it happens.. 
On a side note, sometimes the twitching cursor can also be caused by the surface you are using the mouse on. My bedside mouse often rests on a glass tabletop, causing the twitching problem.
The optical unit is designed to focus at a specific distance, and if it is dislodged or adjusted in any way, then it can not work.  I had a mouse where two of the stuck-on "feet" of the mouse came off, placing the optical sensor a very slight distance (fractions of millimetres) closer to the table/mousepad surface, making the mouse highly unreliable.
Turns out I was having this issue every now and again as well. Aside from making sure the optical sensor is clean of any hairs or grime, you should check if there is a second mouse plugged into your computer.
With a wired mouse, a very likely cause is a broken mouse cable.  Flexing of the cable eventually fatigues the conductors near the mouse body, and they become "touchy" to where they connect and disconnect erratically.  This can result in the cursor suddenly scooting across the screen, etc.
Sometimes these kinds of mouse movements occur because the memory pointer that holds location information relative to the screen has become corrupt.
Nowadays, my conclusion is, that there's only some problem with the optical unit of the mouse. Nothing to worry about.