Something to consider for your setup is your VPN bandwidth.  You can set up incremental backups which shouldn't strain things terribly, but the initial Full backup to get things primed could be painful.  When it comes time to set up our other site, it's likely I will deploy a second Bacula Director instead of trying to do it over our limited upstream, but if you've got the bits to spare, the central management will be nice.
Linux rsync is compatible with Windows deltacopy. I use this setup for file repication, but it's not a true backup solution, so it may not be what you are looking for.
I do not have any experience with Bacula, and for a reason. The Bacula guys themselves say that Bacula is sophisticated and does not suit everybody. However, if you know that Bacula is what you want, and have decided that other solutions (like good old Rsync) are not suitable, then go ahead and dive into it — they say they have the Windows Storage daemon packaged for you in the binary installer.
AhsayOBM detects delta level file changes, and is a fully featured backup option designed for off site backup.
I'm currently deploying Bacula on a network of Linux boxes and will be working on getting the Windows desktops going next.  The only thing I can say as far as difficulty so far is there are a lot of configuration structures to get set up.  There's a fairly extensive hierarchy of Jobs, JobDefs, Clients, FileSets, Schedules, Pools, Storage, etc that needs to be set up.  If you're comfortable with technical documentation, textual config files and have some time to play around, the power you have in the end should be well worth it.  There's a lot of reuse to be had once the structures are in place and working.
That said, there are more free software solutions you might want to consider. Dirvish is one of them, and somebody apparently made it work on Windows, packaged it in an installer, and named it hardBackup. Haven't had any experience with that also, though, but I know that his copSSH and cwRsync work together and are great.
I would just use scp with a ssh server running on the windows server.  rsync will also do a great job.  