As you're working with content meant for Internet access, it would seem like you may frequently be exposed to potential opportunity to be attacked over the Internet.  So, based on the little bit I know from your question, I speculate that security precautions are likely worthwhile.
You might want to consider an alternative option, such as using a DNS server (which, at least potentially, may be more convenient to update regularly).
A program or virus that changes the hostfile could redirect traffic from a website that normally is fine to a different site and you wouldn't notice it. 
The answer can depend on various factors like how important this computer is.  The big impact is simply increasing risk is providing easier access for someone to alter the IP addresses that are provided to software when a name lookup occurs.  That might, or might not, be a very significant risk.
Still, even if you give yourself write permission to the hosts file, you may find you still need to work with UAC because the hosts file is in a protected directory.
However, given that usually altering the hostfile does require permission, its rarely attacked. But the wrong permission can lead to problems and you are likely to not notice it even if you have a trained eye.
However, even though IP Spoofing can make you go to a different site with the same url, they cannot spoof certificates. So if you go to a webpage and you are entering sensitive information or visit a login screen, do check for a https connection.
If you're part of an admin group already I don't see why you will have any repercussions adding yourself to have full access already. If you share your user account with someone else that is different because anyone can mess around with files and folders permissions, etc. 
I regularly change the file because I add different subdomains to localhost when building websites locally.
I would still recommend against this though. Maybe if it is in your development environment, then it can be justified. But if its also the environment where you browse the internet frequently, I would suggest against it. If you need to edit the host file that much, I would look into a different solution, such as a DNS server.
There is a chrome extension for altering your hosts file that will ask you to make the same kind of changes to your hostfile, so its not completely uncommon, but 95% of the people will not have their hosts file permissions set as suggested here, so it is still a very small target for an attack to go to.
To get around the hassle of having to go through elevated UAC every time I thought I might just give myself full access.