Are your old wireless card and your new router both the right version for your country (or really, for your radio regulatory agency domain)? For example, USA's "FCC" radio regulatory agency allows only channels 1-11, and FCC rules are used the the USA and Canada (and perhaps Mexico). Whereas Europe's "ETSI" agency allows channels 1-13. If your wireless card was an FCC model and your router was an ETSI model, and your router auto-selected channel 12 or 13, then it's not much of a surprise that your FCC card can't see it on those channels it's not allowed to use.  Even if it's not an FCC vs. ETSI issue, I've seen some Wi-Fi devices that perform very poorly on certain channels because of internal RF/EMI interference from the host system, or other radio/antenna design problems. Try manually setting the channel on your router, and try a few different channels in different parts of the band (like 1, 6, and 11) to see if the channel matters.
Go into network and sharing center, manage wireless networks, and next to Add there is Adapter properties. Under Networking tab disable Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6). Restart your computer and try connecting again.
Select it and on the top you can see Add button. Select Add and then select Manually create a network profile.
You might have a profile that is using the same SSID but not properly configured, which could be blocking your ability to use that network. As a starting point, verify that all wireless network profiles are deleted, then reboot to try a full device re-initialization. Rogue profiles cause a lot of problems.
Maybe Firewall problems? Sometimes you need to configure your Firewall automatically, note that also router can or have Firewalls in build in.
Another possibility is that your old B/G card is getting confused by the N-specific options it's seeing in the Beacons and Probe Responses of your new router. Try temporarily turning off N support in your new router to try to make it look like a plain old B/G router, and see if your B/G card works better with it in that mode.