Without preaching too much, if you have a large number of servers, configuration management is a big issue. You might as well bite the bullet now and spend some time looking at automated configuration management tools (puppet, cfengine, bcfg, etc.) that can handle this as well as other tasks. Just my 2 cents.
This is also free for SLES as well. It isn't as featured as Novell's enterprise linux management, but at least it'll get you a local update repo to sync your servers against.
Other options are (assuming you're using relatively new SuSE) scripting Zypper to do the updates for you, or just scripting the YoU tool if that's possible. Personally, I try to stay away from any of the Yast stuff if at all possible (I'd rather do things with files and tools I can script).
I use Puppet for all configuration and package management on servers. Though it's probably not the easiest method for homogenous servers if they weren't all built from a single source.
Novell's Subscription Management Tool has a not very well known feature of also being able to replicate openSUSE update archives. All you need is a novell.com login, free and if you have SLES you probably already have one. Look for in the SDK repos for SLES.
Question for anyone out there managing a network of openSUSE machines. How do you keep track of and apply updates? I know about YaST Online Update (YOU) but it seems more geared towards keeping a single machine up to date. It doesn't seem to scale well to a larger number of machines. How do you keep your machines updated? Our network is fairly heterogenous in terms of package installation as the servers are mostly infrastructure machines with varying roles.
I know that SUSE Linux Enterprise has tools to manage updates network-wide, but updating to that is currently not an option for budget reasons.
using opensuse i think it not possible but if have one server /desktop register with novell.com then you can config that as main update server that can push/pull config for updates that is only way i feel   
We use mrepo to provide a local mirror of the CentOS update repositories. The docs seem to state that there is support for mirroring openSUSE archives.