This setup would not work as DSL networks are designed to allow only one device to be connected over a single line at time to the ISP and two routers would simply "confuse" the system.
2)Use inexpensive powerline adapters so as to create an ethernet network over the power lines  (Range varies depending on model, but i believe max 300m or so)
Will this setup work? If so, what additional step I need to take, other than described above? If not working, why?
1)as previously suggested, run a cat5 ethernet cable between the 2 locations, granted that the cable length is less than 100m 
To use the existing wire, you'll need a device or two specifically set up to use the single pair. The DSL extenders do different 'stuff' to a home router (as Big Chris said), so two home routers wont work; you'd need the extender.
Running your own cat5e/6 cable would work, but if the two buildings have different earths (at 100m they may), problems may arise with voltage differentials, which can damage equipment (an entirely different question, ask a new one if you go this route). 
There are extenders that can do this, but they cost several hundred $. These are based on dsl technology, so my idea is, that I put two dsl modems (I have two d-link dsl-360r) on both ends of the wire. Connect one to the router in the house, and the other to another router in the guest house. The distance is a below 100 meters. Both routers run dd-wrt. 
3)Use a wireless ADSL router (which is rather inexpensive) along with a wireless adapter, whose range might be sufficient to cover the distance in you scenario
As Bash said, powerline adapters may be used, but i have no experience with them and their capabilities.
You'll need to get the signal to the workshop using either wired or wireless tech. I know you said no wifi, but a point to point bridge can be quite reliable (and fast) when set up correctly if they are your concerns. If you do want a wireless system, a good place to start looking is at Ubiquiti.
There is a house with internet access, and there is a workshop/guesthouse which has a phone line connecting to the house. The phone line is a copper wire pair, nothing fancy. The challange is to provide internet access through this wire. No rewiring, no wifi, just this line. 