One thing it took me a while to figure out: if you set an "inherit" ACL on a folder, it will only affect newly created files - the "gotcha" being that if a user "drags and drops" a file into the folder in question, the permissions for the folder won't change in any way (unless it's dragged from a different volume, where it will, in essence, be copied and pasted). For the files to assume the inherited ACL you set, they will have to "copy and paste", or manually set the permissions... maybe (since ACL behavior should in theory be the same) this happens on Windows too, I don't know, but it's worth repeating.
Up until now, I've only managed networks with Windows users and the occasional *nix server. Soon, a few users with Macs will get added to our network. What are some "gotchas" to look out for when adding Macs to the network? Key concerns here: compatibility with Active Directory and security
Some versions of OSX crash a lot when connected to a windows 2003 server that has active directory enabled. They seem to have fixed it at some point but I couldn't tell you when. So keep up to date. 
The Macs use AD for all the normal access/permissions and the Mac server for Mac specific task such as updates (you'll find a Mac version of WSUS called Software Update Server).  You could also use the Mac server deployment options (NetInstall) for installs.
Here's a good trick, don't bother trying to get OSX itself to connect to your AD - it can be done but I believe it's not that easy and can take a fair bit of support. Buy something called 'AdmitMac' from http://www.thursby.com/ - it takes all the pain away and is of course supported by them directly. Oh and don't let your macs use any protocols that you're not happy with, they're very flexible but they should work around you not the other way around.
You should also note that every mac has "internet sharing" capability that comes with a DHCP server which can cause trouble.
Depending on who gets the machine, you may or may not want to enable network logon. While you can restrict user access (using parental controls) you might just want to make the user not an administrator and leave it at that as many apps self update and spawn other apps, so restricting them can lead to trouble. I've always giving my mac users full aministrative access and never saw any of the problems crop up that I've seen my windows users get into when they have full admin access to their boxes. There's basically no spyware or virus's for the mac, it makes it a lot easier to maintain.
If you have enough Macs, I'd suggest adding a Mac server - to create the so called "Holy Trinity".  You don't even need to buy an Xserve - OSX server runs on a Mac Mini!  
Also enable imap in exchange and let them use apple's "Mail". It's worlds better then entourage. Also the address book has ldap support built in. There's nothing else special to the mac that comes to mind.