The Mac ntfs-3g software has been a little flakey for me as far as permissions go and you can only run Time Machine from an HFS+ formatted drive.
If what you need is lowest common denominator, I would go with FAT32 and deal with the limitations. If you are just using Windows XP+ then NTFS. If you are using Vista+ then exFAT.
So yeah until there's an agreed upon universal filesystem it looks like NTFS is going to be the fallback for some time.
I recently found myself researching this very topic, and I wrote a script to automate the process of formatting in UDF.  See format-udf on GitHub.
There are some other considerations as well. Windows 7 has support for BitLocker ToGo which allows for full hard drive encryption and mounting using a simple password. It's Read/Write on Windows 7 and then read only on Vista and XP and there is no cross platform support.
You may also be interested in UDF (Universal Disk Format).  See UDF OS compatibility table on Wikipedia.
Like you mention, this depends entirely on what kind of Operating Systems are going to be looking at this drive. If you are talking about Vista+ then NTFS is just fine. While other  OSes (non Windows) can read NTFS drives, I'm not sure their support is as good as FAT32.
If you want Mac compatibility then you'll need http://www.ntfs-3g.org/. Same applies for Linux (You should have an ntfs-3g package available)
The only downside to UDF 2.01 is that there is no native write support for Windows XP (at least without third party utilities).  However, writing with Windows 7 and later are natively supported.
Compatibility across OSen is indeed one of the major factors in choosing a filesystem.  The other is the features of that filesystem, like large (>2GB) file support and journaling.  You'll have to decide what's usable to you based on how you're going to use that filesystem.  FAT32 is predominant because it's kind of the lowest-common-denominator of filesystems.  Depending on your OS you might also want to look into on of: NTFS, ext3, ext4, or even jffs2.
As for choice between NTFS and exFAT. Well, neither vanilla XP nor vanilla Linux support exFAT, but they do support NTFS. 