Programming executables will generally work if you use an application framework (such as java) and most operating systems can run 32bit applications on 64bit hardware without much issue.
I run a mixed environment at my work. Some people use Windows XP 32bit, some Windows Vista 32bit, some Windows 7 32bit and some Windows 7 64bit. There's no problem to share work between any of the employees. 99% of programs that work on 32bit platform will work on 64bit platform unless they require special drivers which is platform dependent.  
So if you're going to buy computer go for 64bit system. There would be more problems for you to run 32bit system if you would like to run 64bit application (well it would be impossible) then vice-verse. 
Problems will only occur if you are writing program code yourself and use instructions that are dependent upon 64bit architecture that you intend to run on a 32bit system. Like I said above, 64bit computers are quite capable of running 32bit software. It's when you've got a program that uses explicitly 64bit instructions and you try running it on a 32bit computer that you'll experience problems.
I bring work home from several different computers and am looking into a new one for me.  Some of my clients have 32-bit and some 64-bit.  If I purchase a 64-bit, will I still be able to use info from a 32-bit computer on a 64-bit computer, and then take it back and restore it to a 32-bit?
Web design, by and large, like documents, will not have any problems whatsoever transfering working on computers with different instruction lengths, as they are functions of the programs that interpret them.
There's no difference in usage for any type of documents to be shared between those 2 architectures. 
Absolutely. the problems will be if the info consists of 64 bit executables, and even then you might not have a problem.
The "bitness" of your computer will have no effect on the data files that you work on. It only affects programs. Unless your clients are giving you programs to run you're totally safe with a 64-bit system.
So if the "info" you're transfering between the "differently bitted" computers consists of any of the above, you will have no problems and should just go on and enjoy more bits.