After that stick the HDDs back into computers and boot them up, install the appropriate drivers, and finish the OS install.
In itself, none of them deal with licensing either, but most Windows installs will complete with an invalid or trial key or no key at all, allowing you or the user to enter a legitimate CD key and activate the product anytime up to several months after installing it. 
The cloning phase takes the longest, but should be a large block of un-manned time, so you can just do something else instead of clicking on buttons and whatnot, or just go to sleep at night.
While I agree with the other answers, I think they somewhat miss the point. The question specifically asks about reinstalling Windows which is what I'll address here. I'm deliberately ignoring installing optional applications as they are not mentioned in the question and are already covered in the other answers.
Of course, if you're paid by the hour, having to babysit the machine all day might not be a bad thing.
This is what I have done in the past.  The OS can handle minor hardware changes; it would be like doing an upgrade.  However, having different CPU type (Intel / AMD) might cause a problem.
Of the above, most don't deal with the issue of installing Windows updates afterwards. As others have suggested, slipstreaming Windows update into your install disk itself is the most widely used method, but this means you do have to update your install disk/image regularly. Alternatively, switch to Windows 10, where Microsoft updates the images regularly, or use one of the slipstreamed "rollup" images you can often get via P2P (note, you can get "untouched" ones that do not have any pirated/cracked software on them, only genuine Microsoft updates, though even those are dubious in their legality)
For larger-scale operations some companies use a centrally-driven auto-deployment system. In essence it's a combination of either 1. or 2. above and a central image repository and network booting infrastructure. This can cut down the entire install process to as little as start PC, press F12, press Y, but is quite a lot of effort to set up (though not entirely prohibitive for a superuser)
For most of my bigger clients we setup network installs and the whole thing is run off scripts. But those are all identical builds and no worries about licensing individually.
Much like Norton Ghost used to do (and various other modern alternatives), all this is an image of a disk with Windows you have already installed on it that gets copied in whole when you want to "Install" a new machine. This is very similar to the "Factory restore" images that manufacturers supply with their machines - only when doing it privately, you have to manually install drivers afterwards if the "source" and "destination" machines differ sufficiently. For the most part, stock drivers and Windows Update are sufficient, especially if combined with a USB stick with a set of drivers for the big vendors - Intel, AMD, nVidia - most of them release unified driver packs these days that cover all recent products anyway.
(The above link provides the basics of how it works, there are various articles detailing specifics for Windows 7+)
Slipstream the updates, downloading them each time would be just too painful for me. Depending on how many machines you expect to be installing on you might want to make your own installation media with all the software you normally install on it.
On a current PC (max 4 years old) such a reinstall i do in 1-2h with only 1h max being really 'active' at the computer.
This is by far the easiest and simplest method. It is basically a text file (well, XML) that provides preset responses to all the questions asked during setup, so they are entered automatically. 
Next, get a pile of HDD enclosures, around $15/ea, and connect a pile of HDDs to your first computer.  Clone the drive across all the other drives.  If computer runs out of USB port, connect the HDD to another computer and continue.
Fastest way I can think of is just building from images or raw copy, under an hour for a complete build with software. I use this method for my laptop I'm using.
Footnote: Technically, above-board "computer repair companies" can only legally reinstall Windows using the license and media that came with the machine - i.e. doing a factory restore - or using individual licenses. Installing your machine using my CD, but entering your license key, is legally ambiguous. Nobody would ever do anything about it, but I wouldn't do it on work time either.
I tend to do it using bootable USB drives and just have everything on it, still have to hang around monitoring but I can do as many simultaneously as I want. I haven't timed it but I would think 2 hours would do a full build with software such as adobe pro and MS Office, a basic build perhaps an hour. I'm just guessing though, I don't bother watching the whole process.