Here's how you can check your index fragmentation (make sure you are connected to the desired database in SSMS before running). Note that this is being filtered for indexes fragmented >= 10% and have >= 100 pages. Feel free to post the results if you'd like suggestions on how to proceed.
Queries that suddenly slow down make me think indexing troubles. If your indexes are badly fragmented it could effect execution plans, which could cause what you are experiencing. 
You need to look at the execution plan for the queries which are running slow as well as the wait stats if there's no problems in the execution plan.
The system tables sys.dm_db_index_physical_stats and sys.indexes can provide you with information regarding, among other things, the fragmentation level and size of your indices.
Run this via Management Studio (it will run for 30 seconds), after you hit execute, run one of your slow-running queries in a second tab, then switch back to the previous tab and copy and paste the results here:
If you look at the plan now and the estimated number of rows is 1 and the actual number of rows is a lot higher than 1 then the problem is statistics.
For statistics, see if your database is currently set to "Auto Update Statistics". Right click on the database in SSMS, click on "Properties", and then "Options".
Odds are the statistics for the indexes are simply out of date and SQL is creating bad execution plans for the queries.  Updating the statistics for the tables using the UPDATE STATISTICS command will probably fix the problems.  If it doesn't you'll need to dig into the execution plans to see where the problems are coming from.
Almost every write process will not only be slowed down by having to create an index, it will most likely also slow down further usage of said indices for READING due to fragmentation, every time that write process stores information for a different index than the write process before it, basically.
Depending on how comfortable you are with everything, you could also get a free copy of SQL Sentry Plan Explorer, it will allow you to upload anonymized execution plans so others can look at them in-depth. Get that and the SSMS add-on. When you execute a query after pressing 'CTRL+M' you can right-click on the plan to open it in Plan Explorer.
Like I said, this code takes 30 seconds to execute. So you hit 'Execute' then run your slow-running query in a second tab, then come back to the first tab and wait for the results. Please tell me if this is unclear.
Assuming you are using SQL Management Studio to run your queries, hit 'CTRL+M' before executing the queries. This will generate a graphical execution plan. If you could post a screen shot it might give us something to work from. This is assuming you are ok with users of StackExchange seeing your table/index names.