You should look for some 'open-source' music and/or sounds. Most of them require you to get a license from the author and pay them in some way, but there are some that you might be able to use for just a mention in the credits.
Also there are public domain songs available. Most of them will be really outdated (ie older that 75 years), or educational type stuff. They could be used for certain styles of games.
Then you want to strip the instrumental track, which beside being pretty difficult, since the instrumental track is merged with vocals and back chorus, but even if a software does extract it for you; this is yet another infringment of the law; unless you are authorized to do so (in which case, you would get directly the instrumental track from the producer, they record in multiple tracks for flexibility).
Take out part of the song, is also illegal; "sampling", which is the term used to get a piece of a song to make a loop (like some hip hop artists loved to do in the past), is legal only if you have the authorization; 2nd infraction.
There is plenty of Creative Commons licensed content. You can find ones that are licensed without the NC (No Commercial Use) clause. For example CC-BY just requires credit to be given. I'm not sure if the SA, Share Alike license is usable with a commercial game (it might require the game to be under the same license which basically would stop it being commercial, or maybe the license only applies to the song and any changes you make to that song).
Solutions: either make your own loops, hire a musician to write the score or request the artist permission; unless you deal with U2 or Metallica, indie artists are friendly people, that may even end up giving you the rights in exchange of a bit of royalties based on your sales.
A song can't be redistributed, in any form or shape, unless approved by whoever retain rights for that song (producer, composer, group, whoever is). Listening on the radio, means that the radio station paid the rights to play it, and you can only listen to it...ripping it, like you do with youtube videos, is a violation
I have also noticed that indie gamedevs have licensed content from some well known (well for the genre) ambient/trance music producers. Jon Hopkins was used in Vessel and Capsized used music from Solar Fields (They did the Mirror's Edge theme too). Might be worth looking into how the indie devs go about that, maybe a producers have a indie game friendly licensing system.
Briefly, if the rights holder doesn't specify the release of the rights in written format (on-line or documented to you) you cannot use a music piece in any way, neither commercially nor non-commercially.
Copyrights laws are mostly approved all over the world. Independently from where you live, they are mostly the same. For more details, google can point you to the correct site for your country.
Either way, those musicians would probably be a lot easier to talk to and make a reasonable arrangement with than most mainstream music authors.
At last, after that you broke 3 times the copyright law; you put it in your product, without authorization, which is the 4h and last infraction.
Yes it would be illegal. You have to contact the owner of the song, and work out licensing details. It is likely to be very expensive.
Archive.org should have stuff for both CC and PD (although I can't get the search to return results for any decent queries related to licensed music).