I just finished doing just what you want to do, to have a base very minimal Linux OS for dev work. I did the install by hand because I wanted to, but they have automated installers for it. Final disk use is around 700MB.
You can try virtualboximages.com - they have plenty of distros, but they charge a token sum ($.99-3.99) per download - which, i assume, goes to cover their bandwidth costs.
I really don't care about the distro itself, or the packaging system, or anything else really. I just want to download it, set up some mounts, and be ready to go.
If I understand your question correctly, you are wanting a VBox image that is a pre-made linux distro that you will run, but ssh into to communicate, to do some non-gui development?  But you do not have a lot of RAM?  
At this point in linux's development, I am all for package-managed systems, even when space is a concern.
VirtualBox can run VMWare VMDK images, which gives you a lot more options. (There are also ways to convert VMDK virtual hard drives to native VirtualBox format.)  You can almost certainly find what you want here:  http://www.vmware.com/appliances/
Why not intstall the VirtualBox support software and just use shared folders and the console to develop in Linux, instead of ssh?
I guess my first concern is that even with just running a CLI interface, won't VBox take up your RAM anyways?  Do you have enough to run vbox in the first place (which I believe is the amount needed for you host system + the amount needed for your virtual instance)?
Second, though no pre-made distros come to mind (bearing, I have done no research), it seems given your unique circumstances it might be to your benefit to download something like Debian-minimal and install the core system and the utilities you need on top of that.  It will require a one-time setup, but once it's done, you can just reuse your own custom image.
Long story short, I am trying to find a pre-made Linux development environment for VirtualBox so I don't have to worry about installing a distro, getting all packages installed, and so forth, since last time I did that it took me a full day to get something that remotely did what I wanted.
If such a thing doesn't exist, I'd still appreciate suggestions of the best distro to use that will get me to my requirements fastest without a lot of tweaking.