We use a commercial service, iPass. Main reason we chose them was availability with a nearly world wide. They do use a safe word password generating pendant (small fob for a key ring). While nothing is totally secure, this will discourage 99.99% of the people trying to steal passwords or login ins. 
You can never really truly trust interacting with a public machine in the end, no matter what measures you take. 
I've heard people suggest copying any passwords or other sensitive information one character at a time using the mouse. The aim is to fool key sniffers since the basic ones (probably most keysniffers) won't look for the mouse copy/paste. 
I doubt you can guarantee security from a public terminal.  If your sensitive services are available via HTTPS, that will give you some protection from line sniffing or proxy servers between the workstation and the server.  However, there is no guarantee that there will not be a recording application on the computer itself such as a key-logger or desktop recording software monitoring everything that you do.  If possible, boot your own micro-OS from a portable USB storage device and work with that and connect to the server through a secure VPN or other encrypted connection.  Even that isn't foolproof though, as a hardware key-logger could potentially be installed on the keyboard or connecting cable (thieves have even done this sort of thing with ATM machines to get your card's magnetic strip and your pin number).
You can either go very far with all this, or decide that a simple ssh tunnel with your keys on a usb stick is sufficient. There will always be risk, and how far you are willing to go to diminish that risk is up to you in the end. 
As is usually the case when it comes to security, you provide layer upon layer of protection, and hope that your layers are thicker than the determination and ingenuity of any potential attacker to compromise you. 
(Personally I wouldn't touch a public computer to do anything important with a ten foot pole, no matter what measures I think I have in place.)
Always be aware of the possibilities of the hardware logging your keystrokes, man in the middle attackers on the network, etc... 
And you can always try to copy/paste non-sensitive characters into another window or mix mouse copy/paste with keystrokes to confuse the picture even further.
It's possible to browse semi-anonymously and over SSL using a proxy web service like the old nph-proxy.cgi script.  Put this on a web host and accessible by HTTPS.  This will also help to bypass network-based content filters.  nph-proxy.cgi can be slow and it doesn't handle embedded stuff like flash, but it usually gets the job done when no other method is available.