Your best bet is to contact a hardware supplier and ask them. Tell them your requirements and let them recommend a valid board to you. If it does not perform as advertised, you'll be sure to return it.
Yes, you can. Many, if not all "off the shelf" motherboard+BIOS combinations have option to ignore missing graphics card. You'd better consult manual for your selected model first though and check out details on how to make your target OS boot with it too.
But even then, according to Wikipedia, mainboard manufacturers licence a core BIOS from the main BIOS manufacturers and then customize it. So there's no knowing what the final BIOS will or will not do.
Some (few, but more than zero) motherboards do demand that a video-card be installed as part of the POST, though this is somewhat poor programming given that headless systems are nothing new, and in fact most BIOSes include an option to ignore a missing keyboard, and some to ignore a missing video-card, primarily for this purpose.
As has been mentioned, it depends entirely on the specific motherboard, or rather its BIOS (i.e., it cannot be resolved through software—other than perhaps a BIOS hack). Since you did not specify what board you have or intend(ed) to get, all we can give is general information and suggestions.
This depends on the motherboard and on the CPU. Both can have IGP (integrated graphics). If none of them has, then you'll need a graphics card or a server motherboard, which can run headless (has dedicated management port and IPMI support). If you have a graphics card or IGP and you want to run your computer headless, then it depends on the motherboard and the BIOS whether it allows to boot without keyboard and display. Some of the boards have BIOS settings for this (you can use them in headless mode), but I think most of the boards don't. The only thing you can do by the latter boards to use a dummy plug for the display and for the keyboard. For the display it is better to buy a dummy plug, for the keyboard you can buy too or you can dismantle a cheap keyboard and keep only the electronics.
You can check its manual (pretty much every manufacturer provides them for download on their sites) to see how it behaves. Make sure to also check if it detects and blocks if no monitor is connected to the video-adapter. Few do, but if yours does, then it could end up being a frustratingly mysterious problem since it only manifests when you have no visual cue as to the problem.
You said that most of the motherboards you are looking at don’t have onboard video, but if you are getting a new board, you could get a system with a video-adapter built-into the CPU.
I can confirm that my Asus M5A97 R2.0 can boot without a graphics card. I installed a nvidia card to do a centos server install and when I was finished I removed the card and did everything else I needed via ssh. I rebooted and it worked fine. It beeps 3 times instead of the usual 1 on startup, but I still get access and everything on the server works.
A cheap and easy last-resort option, since you are not using the video-card anyway, is to simply put in any old cheap card. You can get a cheap, or even free, one from the classifieds like Kijiji, eBay Classifieds, Craig’s List, etc.
I assume this is almost impossible to answer as it depends heavily on the specific BIOS implementation that is used on the mainboard. Unless all major BIOS versions behave the same way and I'm simply not aware of it.