I wanted to go with a Tree-like Graph in which I would separate different sections of the map (like each node is 1/2 of it's parent node, and the last Nodes are the different entity with their positions). That would help a lot for the collision's detection, but I think it still really complicate to implement ...
After that, I start implementing a Camera that could be move around the Map, and then a Player character who can move around too. Currently, the player is an instance of a "Body" class that is store with a x;y location in a field on the Map Object, and is display on a specific empty Layer like any other Tiles (except the sprites come from other external pictures, and not the Tile Set). I linked the control and the Camera to the character, and here I go ! Walking-in-forest simulator 2016 !
With that in mind, the first thing I did is implementing a TileMapReader that take JSON files generated by Tiled, and render it on screen. I've kept the structure Tiled use (github.com/bjorn/tiled/wiki/JSON-Map-Format) in order to store the tiles : The Map have a list of Layer, and each Layer as a list of "gid", corresponding to a Tile in the Tile Set. I generate my map directly from the Tile Set, without creating a Tile Object ... So my map really is just a bunch of Integers, corresponding to a Tile id. I generate then the display by pasting the right piece of the Tile Set at the right place on the map.
The two first thing I'd like to add to the game are interactions with the trees : collisions and chopping.
As it is my first game, I didn't really know where to go so I started by implementing basics functionalities, and i added more while the game took shape.
Since the beginning, trees are just collections of tiles on different Layers, like the rest of the map. But I think I have to make them as Object entity, just like my "Body" ...
I'm posting these here, hopping that there is a simple answer to it (even "just do it" would do ^^ (even if some explanation would be really nice)) and that this post will not be be closed for being too broad ^^"
I'm currently working on my "first" game (the more advance one, at least). It'll be a 2D-ARPG where the player will be able to interact with the map, by doing things like chopping tree, farming, mining, etc...
So here my questions : is my approach on this player-world interactions correct ? since it is my first "big" game, I really would like to know if I'm doing it right or not ... and if not, how can I handle this interactions properly ?
So now, I want to start implementing interaction like collision and so. The problem is that I really can't decide how to do this.