Alternatively, you can use DISKPART to assign the partition a letter.  Fire up DISKPART, and type LIST DISK to find the disk, followed by SELECT DISK <N> (where <N> is the drive number).  Follow the same steps to find the proper partition (i.e. LIST PARTITION followed by SELECT PARTITION <N>), and then simply type ASSIGN to have Windows mount the partition at the next new drive letter.
LawrenceC's answer worked for me. If you have many volumes without drive letters (e.g. Recovery, etc) and don't know which GUID to use, though, here's a way that might be easier:
Under Windows, you need to assign a partition a mount-point to use chkdsk on it.  You can use the Computer Management snap-in (Start -> Run -> compmgmt.msc) or DISKPART to do this (see below for DISKPART instructions).  If you go with the Computer Management method, go to the Disk Management section, where you need to assign the partition either:
Open "Run" type in "diskmgmt.msc", this opens the disk manager. Find the drive, right-click on the drive, scroll to Change Drive Letters and Paths, you can then give it a dedicated drive letter. Every time you plug it into your computer, it will use the drive letter you assigned to it
(The offset can be found using fdisk -l, and look at the start sector for ntfs partition and multiply by 512)
Also, have you tried mounting in linux? If the data is very sensitive I suggest cloning it to another drive as soon as possible. using something like;
Ultimately, you should be able to run chkdsk on a volume, as per the chkdks documentation (instead of a drive letter or mount point, you simply pass it the volume name).  However, it's probably easier and more reliable to just assign the partition a drive letter or mount point.
After this, you should be able to run chkdsk on the particular mount-point of interest.  The easiest and most reliable would probably be to mount it as a drive letter.
You should provide drive letter, volume name (use mountvol to obtain it), or mount point for "chkdsk", here is part of its help content:
You can assign one of these either graphically, by "Disk Management" -> Right click on the volume -> "Change drive letter and Paths...", or by command line (@JustinD explained that).