If the security requirements are higher than the software means, where, in fact, there is risk of attack to a file systems for encryption/decryption keys are stored, or attack with trojan viruses aiming keyboard scans or both or something else, then you will need Hardware means of encryption. They are called Pass encoders with transparently encryption. It is an extra device inside your computer. Such as Ancud produces:
You Could get this particular Netgear NightHawk https://www.amazon.com/NETGEAR-Nighthawk-Gigabit-Support-Compatible/dp/B011AJYQ8Q?th=1
These pendrives are not supposed to leave the office nor be used on other computers. In the event that someone unintentionally or intentionally takes the USB home or tries to plug it into a different computer, they would be able to access the data.
What You Need to Do Is to Turn off the wireless Option, Plug In the Hard Drive, and set it to only allow the computers you want into the local network. And If you Want you could put a hardware firewall on the ethernet input, and it would be secure so you could use it with an internet connection.
EFS will only encrypt folders and files, bitlocker can encrypt the entire drive.  The EFS decryption key is tied to user accounts, bitlocker uses certificates.  As long as you prevent the user from taking the decryption key or certificate out of the office then the files on the removable drives would only be accessible on computers with the right account or certificate.  
I don't see what OS you are using, but if it's Windows 7 or 8 you can use Bitlocker or EFS to encrypt the entire drive or folders and files on them.  You could probably use another encryption program to get the same results on a different OS.
While the drive is not locked to the computer, the information on it will be inaccessible to anyone not on a computer with the proper decryption keys.   
We have pendrives for data operators, they look at sensitive data and the pendrives are for work use in case they need to transfer data between their computers (Their network is isolated and is not able to access Internet or share file servers and I have yet to configure a file server for their use, no hardware yet)