And In general the internet experience becomes "slower" for any other activity apart from opening youtube, when youtube is full loaded, the ping times become normal again (under 100 ms)
Another option is to introduce an artifical bottleneck yourself that is slightly slower than your connection to your ISP. This means giving up some bandwidth and only works well if your bandwdith to your ISP is consistent but it can provide a means to take control of the buffering.
The result of this is that the buffer immediately prior to the bottleneck ends up nearly full while other buffers end up nearly empty. I would guess that the buffer that is causing your problems is on the ISP side where the traffic passes from fixed line to wireless.
This is usually related to buffering. The delay through a buffer depends on how full that buffer is.
So my question... It is normal for ping response times (to some internet site) to change in that way when internet connection is used ?
At my home, my flatmate had terrible Round-Trip Times or could not even ping any server when I was downloading files.
Since you pinged your router and always had a response time 1 ms it is your connection to the internet that is the bottleneck.
But when I start using the browser or the mail client or some other thing, lets see.. opening youtube in the browser the ping response times changes abruptly 
In practice though their equipment may not offer the options needed or they may be unwilling to make changes for you.
This is just with my computer, just with my browser just using two tabs, youtube and some other random web page just to test, obviously when other host connect to the router and try to reach some page in internet the results are worst, I have reached 4000 ms of ping when a youtube video is playing.
Another possible solution would be to limit the amount of bandwidth that your browser is allowed to use. But that leads to a longer waiting time for the Youtube videos.
With a simple buffer when there is little traffic the buffer is empty. Packets get through quickly. When there is more traffic than the outgoing interface can handle the buffer fills up. When the buffer is full it starts dropping packets, typically it drops newly arrives packets, a behavious known as "tail drop". When the sender sees packet loss it backs off the speed slightly, the sender then gradually increases the speed again until it once again sees lost packet.
When the video has to be downloaded, data can only be sent one by one since your connection is limited to 1Mbit/s.
I have a issue with my internet connection and I want to know if the ping response times can be affected by the use of internet. Let me explain, when I turn on my computer and no other device is using the internet connection, and I do nothing more than ping www.google.com y have the next output 
Ping can have an usually or choppy response time when there are loops in the network. I would just give your physical cables a good check and make sure there aren't two cables coming from the router into a switch. If you are the only device connected to your router, I would try to ping other hosts aside from google, maybe pool.ntp.org, and see what your results are. If ping is still usually high, there could be a delay with your ISP.