I have looked around Server Fault and also did Google-Fu, but haven't found anything useful.  I might be one of some in a unique situation.  
What I have so far is some pieced together junk at the moment.  I am not a Powershell Jedi.  I am a Poweshell padawan.  I have half of what I need.  I still need to store the password so it doesn't have to be defined and input each time she runs the script.  I want this to be as smooth and as few clicks as possible.   
On other option to bypass the UAC is running the program under system account because this account has no UAC on an UAC system. 
Well, thankfully if you eliminate local admin, the only real option you have left is CMD line. Powershell is good, but I would think you would be able to run a batch with this, too. 
I might get a few downvotes for this, but I know somewhere I need to define and put in ""Read-Host "some text about entering password" -AsSecureString"" in an existing variable or a new variable.  I have to get the password input into the process. I have tried a few spots.  Thoughts?  Wisdom? Impossible? 
Only downside to each of these is, if the user knows how to open the scripts, she can see what you put in them, which is a huge no no. The only way around that is to write a command within the code to lock the script down upon opening, not executing, to prompt for a password. 
I work in an environment where local admin privileges for users isn't allowed.  At all.  This is very nice, but can be also be a pain when employees who must have local admin permissions to run a program or install software that requires elevated privileges even if only to do the install.  There is a user in bookkeeping who receives a monthly DVD from a vendor of ours that contains much needed reports.  In order to look at the reports and make a backup, she must run the executable on the DVD.  The executable requires Admin privileges for the install.  So since I've been here, every month I run the .exe, UAC appears and I supply the much-needed information to run the installer.  
I want to use Poweshell to make the tool.  Ideally, I want her to be able to put in the DVD and then launch the Poweshell tool (from her desktop shortcut, no doubt) that looks at the DVD drive and runs the setup.exe file as a local admin without the UAC prompt, without her having to supply any credentials.   
If this was a one time program I would use the Microsoft Application Compatibility Toolkit gimmick to bypass UAC http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/windows-and-office/selectively-disable-uac-for-your-trusted-vista-applications/ However, since this is a new DVD sent to her each month I need some kind of tool she can use herself for this operation.  
For the creds I am choosing to go with the local admin account since that password doesn't change.  The local admin account will get the job done.  I will need to store that account information on the computer so Powershell can retrieve the account each time she runs the script.  So this will need to be an encrypted file in a path variable.  