Or, possibly, triggering the automated security sets off a Halon dispersal system.  There are respiration systems nearby, but they're intended for escape - only lasting a few minutes each.  The Halon shuts off after 10-15 minutes (player doesn't know when), after which time security will storm the room.
Depending on your game, I could imagine that some similar mechanic would fit rather well into it. It should fit the whole timed approach and the actual theme as well, without having to explain anything special: If there's some intruder, if he's doin mistakes, he might be a lot easier to spot.
In abstract terms — that is, without knowing the particular mechanics in my ruleset — how can I introduce a time-pressure on the player's decisions?
This adds an interesting tension to the game: You'll want to solve it fast. You can take your time, think 5 minutes about the problem, and then start solving it. Or you can risk it and start straight away. If you make a mistake, you won't be faster or better compared to the slower approach, but you've still got the option to do so.
Add a few patrolling guards to introduce yet another time crunch, as well as a physical threat, and trying to concentrate on the task at hand becomes much more difficult.
One of the old-school techniques from the world of writing is overlapping "fuses".  You're sort of on the right track with the trace, but it lacks punch as it's the only 'clock' running.
I am designing a hacking game, in which the player usually can take his time thinking about how to overcome the obstacles that he/she currently faces. However, I decided that besides coming up with clever solutions, hacking should also feel intense, and that the game needs some ways to put a time pressure on the player's decisions.
By default, you've got 15 minutes to solve a puzzle, which is plenty of time. However, whenever you make mistakes, your time remaining is reduced (the more time you have left, the more you're losing).
The real 'meat and potatoes' in such games comes from trying to juggle multiple lesser challenges simultaneously, rather than dealing with a single monolithic one.
Say, for example, there's a time limit to the overall segment - the player has 30 minutes to infiltrate a secured compound, hack into one of the systems, then find the commands to shut down the protocols blocking them from their primary objective.
It's essentially a Nonogram game: You're supposed to find the right tiles in a grid identified by numbers (similar to how Minesweeper works, but with different mechanics).
First such mechanic that I added reassured me that I am going in the right direction: Sometimes the player can trigger a network trace, which lasts X seconds and can potentially kick the player out of the network unless he/she reacts quickly enough and succeeds in evading the trace. I would like to add perhaps one or two more mechanics that would put the player under a time pressure, but I am a little stuck and always seem to come up with a variations on  'Countdown', i.e. 'There will be (a punishment) in (X) seconds, unless (some action is taken)', but obviously all those mechanics end up too similar.