Because domain names merely point to an IP address the SSL site on the machine will appear for all of the shared domains unless there is no SSL site setup on the IP at all. This will give a certificate error because the domain used will not match the domain of the certificate.
So, since I'm not the most versed in these matters (I'm a programmer, not a sysadmin), Im asking you, good folks:
They are correct. You share the same IP with several other sites. So your site name resolves to this IP. This works great for HTTP, since HTTP inherently supports name-based virtual hosting. However, if other sites use other services that don't fully support name-based virtual hosting or that you choose not to support, people will be able to access those services through your domain name, because it resolves to the same IP as their names do.
it also sounds like they setup a shared ssl certificate for another domain and your site is on the main shared IP, they cant uninstall this without breaking other sites on the server this is normal
Multiple http websites can run on the same IP by pointing different domain names to it because the Webserver can look at the host headers and see which domain name was used. SSL requires a dedicated IP address because the host headers are encrypted and can not be checked in this manner.
*Sorry, but I can only post two hyper-links. If any of you want, can you edit so the link to www.hosting24.com actually is a link (and also so, at the top of the post, website is [website])?
My website is hosted on hosting24.com*, which, at the time I purchased their service, seemed like a good enough host. I was (I hope) to be proved wrong.
if you dont want the risk of any shady business and ssl then you should get the dedicated IP with your own SSL, or a new hosting provider that doesnt do this. I'll agree there handling is not so transparent but this is not unusual to see in the wild
This is not a problem for the shared websites because it is clear that it is not their site, the cert error demonstrates that is being accessed by the wrong name, and most of all it will not be indexed under the shared domain names so the only way to access it is through an incorrect link or by manually typing in https://