If you enumerate your needs, you can A) focus your own research starting somewhere like http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_backup_software and B) expect more thorough answers to your question.
In short, you need a list of requirements (when don't you?) and some way of evaluating risks and rewards. Multiply that by the power of Server Fault and you should have something you can take back to the team to look at.
In addition you can plan full backups and incrementals with strategy. I've looked on other open source solution but BackupPC looks better in a lot of points. I hope this will help you in your choice 
Amanda/Zmanda may be an alternative to bacula, but it I'm guessing that you are looking for something other than an equivalent system.
I use BackupPC for 4 years now and it's fantastic how it is user friendly with interface and how many backup solutions there are. You can backup with rsync, rsyncd, smb...  Well it works fine for me with Linux and Windows as you asked.
Have a look at Amanda/Zmanda. Open source with community and enterprise options. Works on a wide variety of OSs such as Linux, Solaris, OS X, Windows. It even has agents for popular databases like PostgreSQL and other products like SharePoint and Exchange.
Is there a good alternative to Bacula out there that anyone could recommend that runs on Linux and handles both Linux and Windows clients? Or is Bacula pretty much the best solution atm?
I've administered Legato and I've done some work with both Amanda and bacula. They are all essentially the same solution with differing implementation details. Do you need something more radically different? Maybe try a solution like Crashplan? This will require you to fill out your question even further to explore your comfort levels with proprietary formats and cloud services and their related security implications. In order to get something very different from traditional centralized network backup software, you are going to need to figure this out anyway.
I'm going to guess that by saying overly-complicated, you are really looking for a less complicated solution. And, this would imply that your needs don't match your solution.