Hell, an MP3 player containing thousands of songs can cost $20. Setting up a huge corporate-wide streaming solution to avoid having those employees who listen to music buy cheap MP3 players is ... let's say it doesn't accord with my idea of good business policy.
Services do exist - obviously, since just about every retail store and many businesses have music playing and they can't all be doing so illegally. There are floors of my office building that, when the elevators stop there, we can hear good music playing throughout. 
Another solution may be Satellite radio, such as is used by stores. I'd imagine some such services could be connected to a network streaming server as they advertise themselves as being capable of being connected to standard audio equipment.
Perhaps http://www.muzak.com/products/systems (or their competitors, but I don't know who they might be) is a place to start. They're not just "lame elevator music" any longer.
What you should do is get an older computer and load all the music you want on that computer, then share the iTunes library from that computer. Just make sure that the computer isn't too old.
You could also install VortexBox on that machine and stream music from that way. VortexBox is a Linux distro that streams music. Note that I have never used it; it looks really interesting though.
You are potentially setting yourself up for a world of hurt doing this. In most places it's illegal to stream musik and let people listen to it. And a workplace with up to 100 people would probably count as large enogh that rights holders might think it's big enough to go after with legal action.
Adding to CarlF's answer and other comments: To be completely legitimate with such a system, you're probably going to have to pay licensing for the songs. This can very quickly become rather costly.
A few years ago I was in a similar situation, we solved it by setting up our own Shoutcast Server. I was not involved in the actual setting up of the server but they told me it was pretty easy.
If your company is very interested in this service, they should offer a credit to the purchase of an MP3 player for each person. Then that person is responsible for the legality of the songs on their device and I'd imagine that offering a $25 credit to each employee would be much cheaper over the long run than paying licensing fees. Another benefit of this method is that each person gets to choose their own "station programming" and nobody suffers from can't-stand-the-neighbor's-noise issues.
You're looking for the wrong solution. An enormous music library of thousands of songs can be stored on one DVD or flash drive. Don't stream at work.