TCP Wrappers could be arguably called a host-based firewall implementation; you're filtering network traffic.
Basically, a firewall is proactive protection.  The farther you get away from being proactive, the most likely that you'll find yourself in a situation where you're reacting to a problem rather than preventing the problem.  Concentrating your protection at the border, as with a dedicated firewall, makes things easier to manage because you have a central choke point rather than duplicating rules everywhere.
Side note; firewalls are not for the internet only. Your accounting dept. doesn't need ssh/whatever to your ldap server, so don't give it to them. Compartmentalizing internal services can make a big difference to the cleanup job in the event that something DOES breach the castle walls.
Vulnerabilities are hard to predict. It is practically impossible to predict which way your infrastructure is going to get exploited. Having a firewall "raises the bar" for an attacker wanting to exploit a vulnerability, and this is the important part, BEFORE you know what that vulnerability is. Additionally, the ramifications of  the firewall can be easily understood in advance, so you are unlikely to CAUSE problems with a firewall which are more severe than the problems you are likely to avoid.
Similarly, the proper security assumption is that your exposed machines will, eventually, be compromised.  Firewalls and bastion hosts are not set up to prevent your server (with your valuable data) from compromise, but to force an attacker to compromise them first and allow you to detect (and deter) the attack before the valuables are lost.
For highly (CPU-wise) used Web front ends, local firewall really degrades performance, period. Try a load test and see. I saw this tons of times. Turning off firewall increased performance (request per-sec) by 70% or more.
But no single thing is necessarily a final solution.  A good security solution generally is multi-layer, where you have a firewall at the border, TCP wrappers at the device, and probably some rules on internal routers as well.  You should usually protect the network from the Internet, and protect the nodes from each other.  This multi-layer approach isn't like drilling a hole through multiple sheets of plywood, it's more like putting up a pair of doors so an intruder has two locks to break instead of just one; this is called a man trap in physical security, and most every building has one for a reason. :)
In the physical world, people secure valuables by putting them in safes.  But there is no safe that cannot be broken into.  Safes, or security containers, are rated in terms of how long it takes to force entry.  The purpose of the safe is to delay the attacker long enough that they are detected and active measures then stop the attack.
For the point on an attacker making outbound connections on an arbitrary port, a firewall would provide a means of controlling outgoing traffic as well; a properly configured firewall manages ingress and egress in a way which is appropriate to the risk related to the system.
Note that neither firewalls nor bank vaults protect against insider threats.  That's one reason for bank accountants to take two weeks leave consecutively, and for servers to have full internal security precautions even though protected by bastion hosts.
You seem to imply in the original post that you are forwarding "outside world" packets through your firewall directly to your server.  In that case, yes, your firewall isn't doing very much.  A better perimeter defense is done with two firewalls and a bastion host, where there is no direct logical connection from outside to inside -- every connection terminates in the DMZ bastion host; every packet is examined appropriately (and possibly parsed out) before forwarding.
On the point about how any TCP vulnerability isn't mitigated by a firewall, you're nt familiar with how firewalls work.  Cisco has a whole bunch of rules available for download which identify packets constructed in a way that would cause particular operating systems problems.  If you grab Snort and start running it with the right rule set, you will also get alerted on this kind of thing.  And of course, Linux iptables can filter out malicious packets.
This is why "nobody ever got fired for installing a firewall". Their implementation is very low risk, and has a HIGH likelihood of either preventing or mitigating an exploit. Also, most really nasty vulnerabilities end up being exploited by automation, so anything "unusual" will end up breaking a  bot, or at least get it to skip you in favor of an easier target.