Get a second server, use it to make backups. Rotate backups offsite as necessary, or use a fireproof safe to store archived backups. Eliminates bandwidth use and network congestion during the creation of backups if you're doing it to a "cloud." I don't trust sending my data offsite to a third party anyway, but that's me.
You could also consider hosting everything at a cloud service provider.  DropBox, box.net, and others provide models for secure storage and sharing of documents.  This saves you from having to host the equipment (and maintain it) yourself, but you're trusting the security of the service provider.  Whether this is a good or a bad thing depends largely on the size of your IT staff (that is, do you have the staff resources to ensure the security of a locally hosted solution).
A NAS and VPN will give you exactly what you want.  Depending on your price point, you have lots of options -- a consumer level NAS (which these days can scale to several TB of storage) and router w/ OpenVPN would give you what you want for well under $1000 (some assembly required).  
Going in a different direction, I would consider a hosted intranet service unless the files are very large. There are many intranet providers which can do file sharing, backup/revision control & access control.  These work equally well for on & off site users and are inherently cross platform friendly.  For many small org's, particularly geographically distributed ones, this is the way to get started quickly and cheaply. Get a backup internet connection if downtime is a concern.  This is also a reasonable DIY project while setting up a server/NAS & VPN connections will probably require some outside help to get done correctly.
A more supported solution from major vendors will cost a bit more, but is more likely to work "out of the box".  Dell makes a Windows-based NAS (the NX300 that retails for around $3000.  This plus the Cisco router you're looking at would probably be fine.
Cisco routers are costlier, but if you know what you're doing and don't mind their client software they work well too. My personal preference is the Linux VPN server but if you have the budget, Cisco's nice. There's plenty of options for using VPN's.
As for VPN tunneling I'd probably look at using a Linux box configured as a VPN server. Plenty of howto's are a google away for it, saves some cost if you're looking to absolutely minimize your budget, and is configurable. And it should work without extra client software to install.