If you really need the best privacy you can get, just encrypt the data. As the other answers and comments say, if you don't do that, then there are methods to get the data out of your server.
I've yet to come across a provider that doesn't do this (my current one, iWeb, does), but I know with iWeb you can request they remove this.
to list all users on the server in any kind of administrative role e.g. wheel (root permissions), admin etc.
Ultimately, your server's security is a balance between how important/unique your process is, how valuable it is to you, and how valuable it is to others. Generally, data center staff couldn't care less what you are doing until something like excessive bandwidth or a subpoena make them care.
Fact is you should consider any computer you don't have COMPLETE physical and technical control over a potential target for compromise. Here's a link to think on: http://felipeferreira.net/?p=1259
Co-lo ( co-location ) service providers will give you rack space for your hardware, with the condition that you, not them, are responsible for the hardware service. They will push the power button, but that's about all. If the RAM goes, you drive over to the data center and change it. They still have access to the hardware but they will have to pull the tools out to get to it.
Ignoring hardware for a moment, most dedicated hosting providers (on Linux) give you the credentials for the root account but when they install the OS they create a user in the wheel group for for them to login and perform maintenance when you request it, or for if you're inexperienced and forget your password.
I am looking to buy a dedicated server for my web application.But I am concerned about security to my application code and who can access to my server even dedicated server.As hosting provider provides me pre-installed OS I have concern on hosting provider access to my server even I change password.
Rule number three is "If the bad guy has physical access to your computer it's not your computer anymore."
Virtual servers are fully accessible through the hypervisor / virtualization software, you will never know it happened, and they don't need a local account. Encryption won't help here as the keys are also accessible, and the encryption just announces that you have something to hide.
"Dedicated server" + "cheap hosting" means you are renting a virtual server, not your own hardware. Fully dedicated hardware is usually many hundreds of dollars a month.