I am connecting to a VPN that is known to be malicious. Numerous machines on the network including the VPN server its self are all compromised.  What precautions should I take to protect myself?
Record the fingerprint of a handful of SSL certificates before and after connecting to see if they are altering the SSL connections somehow.  If you use ssh and it suddenly warns you that the host key fingerprint has changed, don't continue to connect.  Set up a few sites in your hosts file to check to see if the results from dig/nslookup over the connection matches to test for DNS poisoning/proxying to redirect you to bad sites.
The key thing to keep in mind is that the VPN just opens a network connection (or it should) and isn't a conduit for malware code. 
Assume you're connecting to an actively hostile network, such as a hotel WLAN during a hacker conference. All your traffic will be monitored and probably intercepted.
Also don't send anything over this VPN in plaintext that you'd want to keep from the attacker, since the attacker is presumably reading everything you send over the VPN.  This includes session cookies, plaintext email and website passwords, etc.  Check that any automated connections (eg pop/imap email clients) are disabled before connecting.
Make sure that your trusted SSL cert list is up-to-date, especially with the Comodo reseller compromise earlier this year.  As I understand it, several browsers hardcoded revocations for the certs involved (like mail.google.com) so even if the VPN blocks access to CRLs your browser may reject these certs if you're using the latest version.  Otherwise, you might get caught out with a MITM attack spoofing these sites with an apparently valid cert.
If the VPN server itself is hostile, make sure that you can override whatever routing instructions it provides.  Several client/server pairs enforce routing ALL traffic via the VPN to help prevent accidental leaks of data over the insecure network, which puts it in a prime position to sniff all of your traffic.
When I'm attending tech conferences where they're teaching network analysis, I assume all of the above. It's more white-hat in those cases (usually) but it still is good practice.