As Huskehn has pointed out, make sure you are running 64-bit Java and give OptiFine a try. However let it be known that I was running Optifine and seeing major improvements when I was running a Radeon HD 5770, but when that card recently started acting funny and I got a GTX 550 Ti, Minecraft was giving me strange flickering issues until I removed Optifine and reverted to vanilla.
The number of pixels on the screen increases quadratically if the width and height components increase symmetrically. So, to use simple numbers (these are not real resolutions in common use): if you have a 500x500 screen and you upgrade to a 1000x1000 screen, you don't just have twice as many pixels -- you have the number of pixels you originally had, times four. So 500 * 500 (multiplication) is 250,000; 1000*1000 is 1,000,000. If we took this to its logical extreme and looked at a resolution like, oh I don't know, 32000x24000, I don't honestly know if any existing graphics hardware could play modern games at a respectable frame rate with such a high resolution. The numbers don't LOOK that big, but when you multiply 32000 by 24000, you have a lot of complexity, and a lot of data to process. An enormous amount!
It sounds to me like it's not your graphics card or your monitor but it's Java/Minecraft. Is the server running vanilla or bukkit?
Anyhow the problem I am having is when I go near my friends base on our map (yes this is on a server) my characters/camera becomes almost unplayable. It being to get really choppy and commands and actions are delayed. At first I thought it could be just the network connection, but when I move away from his base everything speeds up again.
If you upped the resolution (which is most likely in a switch from 19" to 30"), yes, there is a performance hit, as the graphic card has to deal with much more pixels to generate. But with your specs, it shouldn't put any problem, mostly with Minecraft. Most likely, you have a problem connecting to this precise server or with the game itself (there is a lot of times when Minecraft is a bit slow / not the best with performance). If you have the same problem with Skyrim or DeusX, you probably have a problem with your graphic card (not the specs, the card itself). Normally, you shouldn't see that much a slowing when switching to a bigger screen with a card that strong.
I didn't read most of your question, but the answer to the title question is yes, insofar as "size" refers to "screen resolution" (in pixels).
The new computer is an Inel i7 3820K with 32GB of RAM and 3 WD Black 1TB drives in a RAID 0 using th e Intel Matrix Storage. The graphics card is an Nvidia GTX 560 with 1024M or VRAM, it made by eVGA.
Every pixel has to be processed, in some way or another, individually... and with complicated 3d rendering programs, each pixel often has to be re-calculated and re-processed several times as various effects are applied: shadows, geometry shaders, lighting, screen space ambient occlusion, culling, anti-aliasing, and so on. Each of these operations effectively has to look at a large swath of pixels (or indeed, every pixel on the screen) and modify its color elements (whether they're Red/Green/Blue or some other arrangement).
The physical size of the monitor is not important. The screen resolution (number of pixels) directly affects the performance, because more data (more pixels) means more processing at each stage of rendering.
The only thing that could come to think is maybe it is my monitor causing the problem, I went from a 19" acer display to a 30" Dell UltraSharp. Could it be that the level of complexity in certain areas of the map combined with the resolution I am running the game at is taxing my GPU just a little too much and is causing me to lag?
This is really annoying and I would like to figure out this issue but after so many problems with previous computers I am just pretty stumped with this one. I am going to trying some other game like Skyrim or Deus Ex: HR and see if I get the same problems.
Also try playing with the Advanced OpenGL setting (ON was working best for me once I reverted to vanilla).
Granted he does have a lot of complex machines and other contraptions running in a very small area and I thought that maybe there is just a too much going on and my computer's wifi is choking but I dont think that is the case. My friends internet is worse than my by a lot and he has no problem playing from Antigua and I am in Ohio.
Are you the only one experiencing lag around these contraptions, or do other people as well? This really good be the key here, do you have lag issues in any other settings? I highly doubt it's a hardware issue given your machine is well above the recommended for Minecraft. If other people get the same issue, then maybe some bukkit performance plugins are in order.