You need to access your guest OS's by installing VMWare vSphere and connecting to your ESXi host machine through there. 
You can't do it that way on the laptop. You'll need another computer from which to run the control software like VSphere and/or run remote desktop/ssh/etc. to interface with the VM's directly (RDP to a Windows VM system, for example.)
Looking for a solution to use a hypervisor that allows access to the VMs that are running on itself.  Basically, I would like to setup a laptop that can run 10 to 15 VMs that are already built, but to do it without using windows as the host.  I have ESXi 5.0 installed and running the VMs, but I have no way to access the VM desktop directly from the Laptop.  Any suggestions??
Your best bet is to get an inexpensive desktop or notebook computer, set up Windows, and connect to the ESXi system's web interface from which to download the control software. Install it, and you should be in business for monitoring and managing your ESXi system.
Contrary to some answers here, this is actually possible with any virtualization technology that allows a vm to get direct access to hardware. But you need a different piece of hardware to each vm; a much more convenient setup is to access other vms through a single one, who have access to the io hardware. This is, for instance, exactly the behaviour that the xen project gives you, by using the concept of domain 0. But you will need hardware that support pass-trough to use esxi this way, so YMMV. 
Note, however, that this configuration on the esxi is kind of advanced stuff (a hack really). Imagine you have a notebook, and under esxi, two VMs, one of them holding access to video, keyboard and mouse. If that machine hangs, you can't anymore access esxi through that VM, and you will need web access to fix it. If you locked web access to that VM, you will be in deep trouble...
Do I understand you correctly when I say that you have the bare-metal hypervisor ESXi on the laptop and running with the VM's, but you are looking to access the VM's?
Once you've accessed your machines through the console on vSphere, you can set up some sort of remote administration (RDP, VNC, SSH or whatever) that you can use for the future.
The difficulty to visualize that this is actually easy to do is caused by a lack of understanding on the basic differences between a desktop machine and a server machine physical access. A desktop will always allow physical access to users, because that is its function; a server will offer access to its published services, and physical access is rare to nonexistent after setup.
So, you can install esxi, configure any number of vms you want, and give direct access for a particular VM to the devices needed for physical interaction (graphics card and some usb root devices). Other vms inside esxi can be accessed by remote access, using this "quasi physical" VM. If you have more than one graphics card, you can get more than one machine to be physically accessed this way. See here for a very cool 4 sit game configuration using esxi :)  