If you want to know if it is an infection, you could always use Anti-Virus tools.  There are multiple different suites out there... and your computer most likely came with one.
You want a solution?  Perform a factory recovery based on your computer manufacturer's instructions.  If there is nothing wrong with any of your hardware (your Ram is good, hard drive is good, etc.) then this should take care of your issues.
Now the Program Compatibility Assistant is disabled. To get effect restart your computer. To check the Program Compatibility Assistant is disable or not open the task manager (Ctrl+shift+Esc) and search for “PcaSvc” service under the service tab. Hopefully, you don’t find this service in the task manager. Finally you have done your job sucessfully.
Why?  Who knows... Sure.  It could be an infection.  Could be bad memory.  Could be a failing hard drive.  Could be a really messed up installation of Windows.  Could even be that the programs weren't installed correctly.  Impossible to give you a definitive answer though, based on the information you have supplied.
When you try to install any software or execute any .exe file which may be not compatible with windows 7 computer, it gives you a notification message saying that “This Program might not have installed correctly“. This feature of windows 7 becomes sometime very useful because you are informed if you have done something wrong when installing any program.
A new window “Services” will be displayed. A lots of services are listed in this window. Search for “Program Compatibility Assistance Service” in the list. Right click on this service and select “Stop“.
You could also bring the computer to a computer repair shop, and pay a professional to take care of the problem.  I mean, this is a complex electronic device that costs as much as a used car... just because it fits on a desk doesn't mean that everyone and their brother should be able to fix it themselves.
A “Program Compatibility Assistance Service Properties” window will appear. Under “General” tab in the “Startup type” section, click on the drop-down menu and select “Disabled“.
But if this warning message pops up every time you install a program, even you’ve installed the program correctly and the program works very fine, you definitely feel irritating. It would be better to disable this annoying window.
sc : http://www.techtipsgeek.com/fix-problem-this-program-might-not-have-installed-correctly-windows-7/5866/
Open the Windows services configuration by typing services.msc in the start menu run box. Locate the Program Compatibility Assistant Service in the window and double-click it to open its properties. A click on the Stop button will stop the service in the current session. Changing the startup type from manual to disabled will prevent that the service is started after system restarts.