PCIe SATA expansion card does not necessarily mean Port Multiplier. To put it differently, a PCIe SATA expansion card is a PCIe card, that adds another (typically AHCI) host controller that provides SATA connectors, just like the AHCI controller on the mainboard. In the olden days, these were added to systems with only IDE controllers, and nowadays for devices that have too few SATA ports.
The bottom line? It is difficult to determine support for port multipliers, and you should use one of the other options where possible (PCIe-attached HBA card, or USB-attached controller).
Plug such a card in & secure its backplate with a bolt. Put new/next hard disk in a bay & secure. Connect data cable; card to drive. Connect power to drive. Turn on system. If that drive does not already contain your extensive hoards of animated GIFs, then just partition & format, and it soon will. 
Port Multipliers are a totally different thing, you can think of them like USB hubs. One connector goes in, and many connectors go out. They all have to share the upstream bandwidth, while PCIe SATA expansion cards have the full bandwidth on each port.
A modern pci-E x1 Sata Controller in your ASRock will suffer no such ceiling, and will not be limited like mbrd's integrated SATA. 
A modern motherboard should have at least one little PCI Express "x1" slot. POWER DOWN. PROTECT AGAINST STATIC. Open your system box, and see if your x1 slot is available (not already occupied). 
Linux/BSD: Generally good support. Try to find out whose SATA controller ASIC ("chip") is being integrated in candidate card, and which model chip, then (example) search: Linux support LSI
From there we see on page 591 there is a register that should not be set, as port multipliers are not supported on the 6-series PCH:
We start by looking up the SATA controller. In your case, it is part of the platform chipset, the Intel H61. Thankfully, Intel is pretty good about their specs, and those are available on Ark.
As you can see, this is contradictory and confusing. Though since the H61 only has ports 0 through 3, the note about 4 and 5 is irrelevant to your board.
If we look at third-party sources, this wiki claims support while this forum thread claims lack of support.
I would recommend you to use sas card instead of sata card. If u have free atleast 4x pcie slot, better get sas card such as LSI SAS9220-8I, Then If you wanted to use SATA harddisk, just find Mini SAS 4i SFF-8087 36P 36-Pin Male to 4 SATA 7-Pin Splitter Adapter Cable.
HASHIM PLEASE NOTE: For win(ver.X) that ASRock mbrd's BIOS/SATA has a 3gig ceiling; see product website for "unlocker". 
A hard drive's deepest power draw is at spin-up; modern drives hardly take much juice at all any more; don't worry about your power supply if adding only two or four more drives. 
Reliability: Good; don't touch tiny gold contact (slot) "fingers" with your fingers. Clean contact fingers only gently with solvent & lint-free cloth. 
The common, cheap PCI-E-to-SATA controller card is also known as "pci-E SATA HBA") and will be priced from $20 &up; e.g: StarTech has one around us$35; they tend to re-label common generic designs; maybe worth extra buck or two among low-end cards. 
From there we're given a link to the datasheet. Unfortunately, that link is now broken. In these cases, you may have luck with archive.org; I chose to search for the document name ("6-chipset-c200-chipset-datasheet", from the URL) and there is a PDF copy available on the Intel website.
Your box's power supply should provide SATA-power feeds. If you need to use a Y-adaptor cable to split-out power for these extra SATA drives, try to budget for splitting from SATA-power. Otherwise, a Y-cable splitting out from ancient 4-pin-Molex -to- SATA drive power is adequate and cheapest. 
Some (other) mbrds offer an x4 slot; a tad longer than x1. An x4 slot can handle 8 additional drives, using a HBA-type pci-E card. 
Port Multipliers are not necessarily in the PCIe expansion form factor, but there are different models that fit in a 3.5″ slot. The ones that fit in a PCIe slot usually do only mechanically, as they will have not electrical contacts to the slot.