If you just want to prevent this from happening on occasion, or per some specific instance, you can simply wait for Mac to make the unwanted change and then press CMD+z to undo.
Even though I was copy/pasting the command directly from GitHub's instructions, TextEdit was “fixing” my quotes before I put them in Terminal. Unbelievable! This drove me insane, but I'm recovering...
As other replies here have stated, the global default can also be changed using System Preferences (Keyboard>Text>Checkbox "Use smart quotes and dashes"), but this turns on and off quote substitution as well as dash substitution.  Moreover, some apps, but not all, allow you to change their defaults by control-clicking in a text field and selecting Substitutions or Show Substitutions.  For example, Mail lets you do this, but Keynote does not.
Also, here's my horror story about “curly quotes:” I had been using Github for years and wondered why my "contributions" never appeared correctly on my profile. I eventually discovered I had configured my git user name in terminal with curly quotes instead of straight marks:
It's worth mentioning that even with "use smart quotes and dashes" enabled, you can still "undo" the auto-conversion of -- to — (emdash) by pressing CMD+Z. If turning smart dashes off completely sounds too extreme, this is one way to bring back the -- (double dash).
In you're using Apple "Office" tools: Page, Number, etc, the settings in System Preferences or the command line defaults command as mentioned in previous answers won't affect the smart substitutions. Instead, you'll have to go to top tool bar Edit > Substitutions menu to check or uncheck 'Smart Quotes', 'Smart Dashes' etc.
The first turns off dash substitution for a particular app (here, Keynote); the second for all apps that don't have their own, overriding, default set explicitly.  Replace 0 by 1 to turn dash substitution back on.
If you're using TextEdit then 7stud's answer is the way, which is included here for completeness: TextEdit > Preferences and check/uncheck the settings in the bottom sections.