Small Business Server (SBS) would seem to be an excellent solution for you - it would require re-installing your server but that shouldn't be a big deal since you would already have a massive migration issue if you moved to a domain (which you should).
In my environment, all of the employees don't run the exact same software.  Of course, we all need the essentials (MS Office...) but since most of us use different types of software it wouldn't make sense for us to bog down a Terminal Server with several apps that only one or two people would use.  We decided to use my first idea from above all of the workstations in an Active Directory domain.  Being in a Windows domain allows me to configure Group Polices and logon scripts to make sure that drives are mapped, etc.  In addition, we also use automation software to for patching, updates, etc.
It is bad practice to allow people to remotely connect corporate asset from their personal computers, you have no idea what is on there and have no control of antivirus or who has access to the machine and by extension corporate resources and privileged information.
The second solution, which you briefly touched on, is to install Terminal Services on a dedicated server and have everyone run their applications from it.  Not only will all productivity stop if that server fails, the server itself would have to be very powerful to handle the average workload of 15 power users.  Although this does provide a simple solution to not having to manage the "up keep" of individual workstations.
SBS provides some very useful features but how useful does depend a little on what your office setup is like.  Do you have workstations for the users at work or are they using laptops and taking them hom.  If you have computers at work that users typically use, having an SBS domain can provide a feature called "Remote Web Workplace" RWW.  This feature allows people to connect to their desktops easily through a web site (without VPN, but still securely). 
First and foremost, I recommend getting all corporate data off of all individual workstations.  Even if you're not in an Active Domain network, have all of the users access the data from a shared network drive.  This will not only allow the data to survive a workstation failure, it will provide you with a centralized backup point to backup all corporate data (for historical archiving and offsite storage).
But, to answer you question, I recommend either of the following solutions.  The first would be to provide everyone with their own workstation located onsite.  This workstation would contain of all their applications and have mappings to the mapped drives from above.  Then via a secured VPN tunnel, allow the users to access their individual workstations remotely using Remote Desktop.  The downside to this method is that you're still going to need to update software on individual workstations, although at least they'll all be local to the office.
Feel free to ask more about SBS or provide more details and maybe another solution is more appropriate (it's rare that I see an organization your size where SBS would NOT be an appropriate solution).
Part of this is going to be a process instead of technological fix, you will need buy-in from management to really make this stick. Some of the benefits will be centralized backup of all important documents, people not having 4 different copies of a file on 7 different machines. Roaming profiles are not as important with laptops + centralized file server and has done use well with our mobile workforce of about 40 people. 
This is actually probably the most important thing you can do, you do not want to allow unencrypted access to your corporate network. Probably the easiest approach would be to use something like a Cisco/Sonicwall/some other hardware device or a windows server running RRAS/IAS (not your primary DC/File server) or a linux box running something like openVPN.
I would recommend hiring a person who knows and understands SBS to install it properly.  (There are MANY people out there who don't know it/understand it and they mess it up and provide a lot of false information about the product because they've only heard bits and pieces about it).  Once installed, you can manage it for day-to-day operations, such as adding users, resetting passwords, setting up shares, etc.
Now, do you NEED SBS or can you use your existing server?  You CAN use your existing server, but SBS is DESIGNED to be managed by the less technical systems admin (The guy/gal who is by default the person everyone asks to fix their computer problems in the office).  So it's generally much easier to setup and manage and it is VERY wizard driven.  
This will give you central management. This will allow you to deploy software, setup policies, lock down the machines, centralize user accounts, etc. You may not need anything fancy right now but it will get you started. But please, please stay away from SBS.