As you have a spare switch, give it a try. It is possible that your current switch just cannot push data around fast enough when some ports are at their maximum transfer.
If possible you could always setup VLANs if your current infrastructure supports it and you wouldn't need to run an additional network cable to each machine.  But as David said above if it isn't a network issue, It won't solve anything.
However if you are trying to do directory listings on the servers involved in the transfers of those large files, your problems might be because the drives on the computers involved are too busy to step your requests in quickly.  In that case, additional network capacity on the server won't help.
If your problem is network device contention, then moving the transfers to another subnet will help.  You'll have to be careful to ensure that the transfers move over the second network and not the first.
Another idea: you mention you are transferring between a few workstations/server. Depending on their physical locations and available ports, you could run Firewire cables between them and do the file transfers that way (from what I remember, you can make it look like a network interface on the machines). Your disks may still be the bottleneck then, but at least you have solved the network speed issues.
One thing you can do with the separate subnet (assuming it's all gigabit) is use jumbo frames for additional throughput. For this to work, all devices (including the switch) must support jumbo frames.
I have a "backend" network set up this way; the servers and NAS box each have an interface on this network (set for jumbo frames), the servers and NAS box talk to each other over this network freeing up the "frontend" interfaces for the clients.
Years ago (before GigE switches were cheap) I used to run two separate subnets. Each machine had two NICs, one for general and one for file sharing. This sounds similar to what you are envisaging.
Disk access on the file servers themselves could be the bottleneck. If files are copied/to from them, then adding extra network capacity is unlikely to help directory listings etc. from those same servers.
Running a separate parallel network is almost definitely not the best way to tackle this.  It's quite a bit of work and maintenance, and isn't likely to solve your problem.  Keep in mind that it won't automatically balance the traffic over both of your networks.  So for example, if all clients use the second network for file sharing, then it will be saturated and directory listings will still be slow.  Your first network might still be fast, but nobody will be using it for filesharing.
If your switch supports SNMP, I would take the time to setup Zenoss or something similar.  It will graph the utilization on each port, which will greatly improve your ability to pinpoint the bottleneck.  It can also graph the vital statistics of your client and server machines.