3) Stay away from Foxconn motherboards for the same reason, we frequently find them going bad even in very young machines.
All that said no matter what kit you go for find a good reseller. If you have any problems you can always get the reseller to deal with it. We've been through a number of resellers and finally found some good ones. (We use separate ones for servers, desktops and networking equipment).
Statistic - We have replaced 35 desktop motherboards so far this year. Of those, 28 were EMS or Foxconn. Two were Asus, 5 were MSI. I think I may have a dead MSI coming in later today, but we'll see.
I agree with Michael Stum. However, I remember that HP Laserjets manufactured in the late 90s were all but indestructable and they will forever have a place in my heart because of that.
Oh boy, this is a fun answer. My company does desktop/laptop computer repair, and we also do a lot of computer assembly. I keep very good records about what goes bad in our shop, and here is what my spreadsheet say:
1) Stay away from the HP Pavilion line of laptops that start with "DV" nearly half our laptop repair business (that is, physical repair, bad motherboards etc) is done in DV5000/DV6000/DV9000 computers.
2) Stay away from EMS motherboard, we frequently find them bad, even in relatively young (2-3 year old) desktops.
I've never had good luck with Lexmark Printers.  Where I used to work we had nearly a dozen models that got returned or repaired with high frequency.  Luckily in those days most users were still used to generally crappy reliability from their hardware so not every printer had to be returned.  At the time Epson and HP had much better products in terms of reliability.
Statistic - So far this year we have replaced 19 laptop motherboards. Of those, 10 were DV5000, DV6000 or DV900 models. Almost all had bad graphics chips. 
4) Dell Inspirons last forever. We see huge numbers of 4-6 year old Inspirons (600, 600,. 6000, 1505, 1705, etc) that have bad hard drives, but are in otherwise good condition. We see very few similar HPs (the ZE series, early Pavilions) that have lasted that long.
Statistic - We stock the most common Dell and HP power adapaters. In as far as the purchase of power adapters gives us a sense of the popularity and longevity of a machine, I have so far this year sold 15 adapters for older dells, and only 3 for older HPs.