Plenty of CS majors move into software engineering as they gain experience, but fewer people seem to move into CS after they've studied software engineering.
The question that should really make your decision is "which is the better school?"  When I'm reviewing resumes, I typically consider CS and SE degrees to be pretty much equivalent. I know the curricula differ, but not in any standard way between schools, and a high GPA in either degree serves the same purpose of imbecile-filtering.
Too many people major in CS hoping to get a job right after graduation.. CS was originally made to go into grad school in Phd. Engineering was made to take the science and put it into practical use.
Computer Science and Software Engineering should be different courses of study, but you'll find that most colleges only offer one.  Most schools only offer a Computer Science program, which is essentially combining the two.
The CS will either do research or try to go into an "engineering" job; however, the ENGINEER will always be better at an ENGINEERING job.
A traditional computer science program is aimed at the more theoretical aspects of computing. You'd generally work in more traditional languages (C/C++/Java) and you'd spend a lot of time contemplating data structures, algorithms, and efficiency. CS majors typically are required to take a great deal of Math and Science. (I encourage our students to get a Math minor, because they're only one course away by the time they take our requirements.)  The focus on math and theory are good preparation for certain kinds of game programming (say building game engines and creating lighting models.)  
CS majors tend to have a better understanding of algorithms and other mathematical processes while being able to explain it to others.
Since you're asking on the game development forum, I'm assuming you're interested in a game development career.  Both programs would be fine. They have some overlap, but they also would lead you in different directions.
Software engineering has a different focus. Software engineering programs are typically more focused on business applications. The emphasis is on working with large teams of developers and building large software projects.  Games are a form of business application, so the skills would be applicable.
I attribute this to the relative youth of computer science as an area of study.  Just a decade or two ago most Universities didn't have a computer science departments.  The computer scientists where just part of the mathematics department.