For the accounting/admin portion of the business, we have about 5 users using an accounting software which runs on a manually configure private ip range. (This can be reconfigured easily). Each accounting enabled computer has it's own dot matrix printer. 
I started out using one ISP provided email with one outlook express, to using shared hosting with 3 email POP accounts with Outlook. Over the years, as email got bigger and bigger, I have migrated over to a VPS (PLESK) running it's own mail server, and after that we have been using the free version of Google Apps with 11 users. 
I do not expect this to be easily achiveable, it would take a reasonable amount of background work and time to setup, but it would be great if someone could drop me an idea and point me in the right direction to go. 
Which brings me to the actual question, would it be overkill to setup domain services for less than 25 users? While I can maintain my own linux machine and webservers in my spare time, I do not have any windows server experience, exchange server experience, I have also never setup AD/LDAP solutions. 
Some accounting users have unrestricted internet access. I have simply configured this by not entering a DNS/GATEWAY manually. 
It should have a reasonably easy to understand frontend to configure. Multiple frontends for multiple services is fine. 
I leave the mail on the google apps server, because every now and then the computers break down and a reformat is usually the easiest solution. So for newly formatted computers, they have to redownload mail. For some users, I make sure that they save their Outlook mail on another directory so that I can just point Outlook to the correct outlook mail data file. 
As you can tell, the whole office's setup is a hack here and there. Google Apps is great, but I find that 7 GB of email is not enough for me, it simply fills up too quickly. 
The entire office will be undergoing a relocation and upgrade in 3-4 months, it seems to me that this would be a great chance to remove all the legacy file servers, setup archiving methods, and use proper methods to manage all computers and security. 
Assuming I have an automated archival process, I should be able to remove mail from the gmail apps server after I download it. I have done some research and found MailArchiver to suit my needs, but I am not sure if this is the direction I should go. 
I am in charge of maintaining the infrastructure of a small (<25 users) family owned business. Here's the setup we currently have. 