The main key for sharing printers is to put the computers to the same workgroup and set the printer as shared printer. There is a great tutorial for the process but it is in hungarian so I translated it.
Once you have those, update the 64-bit driver on your computer. Reboot. Back into the Printer's sharing options and add the 32-bit driver. Make sure you extract the above files to different directories (they do by default) and keep them straight.
If you tell us the printer's make, we might be able to help you with finding a suitable driver for XP.
You need to add the XP drivers onto the server for this to work. In this case the "server" is your Windows 7 machine. You should see an "x86" option which will allow you to import the 32-bit drivers.
Some pictures of this tutorial is in hungarian so follow the instructions or the layout of the windows.
discover and install the correct driver. If XP is incapable of finding a suitable driver, you would need to download and install one from the manufacturer's website,
You probably have and older copy of the UPD, which had an error in the INF files, producing the error you're getting. The simple remedy is to download the newest 32 and 64 bit drivers from HP.
I have same printer in one of my customer networks, but before any guide, why you are not using "HP Jet-direct internal print servers" that build into this printer? and forget sharing and .....?
0 - for preventing any conflict and driver issue remove any HP HP P4014n driver from add/remove programs.
The process is finished, so now you should be able to print anything via clicking File then Print. You can choose the printer, and if the remote PC is turned on (and the printer is powered and not working) the print should start.
anyway, if you want to connect directly to xp machine and share it, here is some steps of doing that. (same steps if you want to install on 7)
With this technique the Windows XP PC will connect to the Win 7 one and use it as a server. The printer is connected to the Windows 7 PC and both the PC and (of course) the printer are turned on. In this tutorial we assume that the printer works properly in the Win 7 PC.
I think you connect the printer to XP machine and you want to share it , and any 32 or 64 bit windows OS can use  HP P4014n.