From a security point of view I beleive full disk encryption with single sign on is daft! Keyloggers, people watching what you are typing, the use of your standard password in all sorts of places mean that once they have one, they have full access to your "secure machine"
I find it slower than BitLocker and takes over the whole drive, MBR and all, which I hate, but no serious issues.
We use Credant where I work.  It's not very well liked, as the performance impact it has on the system is noticeable unless you negate it with a faster drive such as 7200RPM or SSD.  
I've been ask to look at full disk encryption software for our mobile users.  We're running Windows XP SP3 PCs on a domain and my understanding is that we will not be upgrading to Vista and have no current plans to upgrade to Windows 7.  This would seem to rule out Bitlocker.  We'd like to look at two different types of solutions:
The solution must be reliable (e.g. not lose password sync when a user is forced to change her Domain password on the road.)  This is a small shop, so ease of administration is important.
The powers that be may rule out TrueCrypt because of its recent security vulnerability, but for the purpose of the question, I'd like to hear how well it meets these requirements.  Same thing with BitLocker - it may be ruled out because of a lack of desire to upgrade Windows, but I'm interested in the job it does on Vista/Windows 7.  
I can understand it from an ease and a user point of view, but I beleive having the seperate logons provide just that extra layer of security.
I actually work on two different systems / networks, both use BeCrypt. One uses single sign on (unless otherwise specified) and the other is not single sign on.
We use SafeBoot at work, however I don't think it meets your AD requirements; it has its own server solution with userid/computer store (hence more admin overhead). Does have a list of who can boot each machine.
We are using PGP Whole disk encryption where I work.  I was not directly involved with the setup of it so I can't give you a lot of specifics.  I do know that it is authenticating against our AD infrastructure, but it does not do single sign-on as the PGP layer happens at boot time before windows boots, and therefore before there is any windows network connectivity.