Block out a certain amount of time for administrivia each day - if you don't let a backlog develop then keeping up with it will be easy.
No time for research? This is also an important part of the job, not a trivial addition. If you don't have time for it then you're either under-resourced or you have another problem if you're constantly being dragged away from stuff like this to fight fires.
I found that the best way to take care of these tasks is to come up with a scheduling system, so that A) you are not spending all of your time on the day-to-day problems that come up and B) you reserve time for the documentation and other back-office issues that need to be taken care of.
I like the "handle it only once" technique: whenever possible, get rid of things on your to-do list as soon as possible.  
In that light, I would highly recommend David Allen's Getting Things Done (GTD).  His system of managing ever changing TODO lists fits in well with how administrators and managers work.  I've been using it for 3 years now and my time is much more productive, and I never feel like I don't have a handle on all of those little issues that should be handled.
Staff Development - this can be an ongoing thing throughout all new tasks aside from the one or two specific training things, and these are important and hence deserve to be given the time they need.
If you show you're always happy to take crap from people then they'll carry on doing it, once you're older you get less people trying this so you can pick and choose how best to benefit your organisation.
Probably not the answer you want to hear but I've found that I get more time for that kind of work the older I got - people just give you more time and don't 'rag' on you so much.
For other documentation tasks, even though they add a bit of time to the job, you have to get into a habit of doing them.  e.g. if you have a spreadsheet of switch/patch-panel connections, you have to take the time to update it whenever you make a change, otherwise you'll spend more time later sorting things out.  Similarly, we keep our patch panels very tidy with lots of velcro tape and it takes a little bit longer to re-do all the velcro when we change patch connection, but it's worth it because you can see where everything is.