Finally, I think you should always have some kind of lights-out management.  Then you could log in and copy down the message and restart the server yourself.
from the connected monitor before he rebooted (and the situation is fixed). I'm not sure what log this information is kept in as I can't find the text after checking the logs after reboot.
The server became unresponsive to SSH, Ping, HTTP etc. and the technician with physical access to the machine sent me this screengrab here:
If you want to be proactive, or it happens randomly a few more times, you can try LKCD to capture a core dump.  http://lkcd.sourceforge.net/
This may sound a little off, but I had issues with Ubuntu x64 running on a server that was a 64 bit server. I had these same errors and subsequent "freeze" issues very often. It tried removing drivers, adding back drivers, spent hours looking through bugs, and nothing was helping. I finally got it resolved by installing a 32bit version of Ubuntu. It worked, I did not need 64 bit, so I let it ride. This is not a good solution if you need 64 bit, but it might give you a road to explore a bit. Maybe look up the server your running Ubuntu on and see if there are know compatibility issues around it. Good luck.
I don't know how much RAM you have, but even trying memtest86 for a couple hours could be beneficial.  It won't catch really rare errors obviously.
If you have no other information (as ring0 said, it won't be saved to disk somewhere), then there isn't anything else you can do.
I have seen such crashes when servers ran with too high load/too many processes over a prolonged period of time. To generally check what is happening on your machine, I recommend to install a monitoring framework such as munin on your server - that will help the analysis in case this happens again.
Ok, that's a stack trace from the kernel. I'm not a kernel expert, but the cause involves interrupts, irq (interrupt) balancing, and probably PICs. This is more common on laptop hardware than server stuff though. The broken laptop solution is to boot with a kernel option of noapic. 
I also suggest you add kernel.panic=5 /etc/sysctl.conf.  That will cause the server to reboot after 5 seconds automatically if the kernel hangs again.