Have you ever played Quest64? You regain magic points by moving around in the world, and striking enemies with melee attacks. You obtain limited amounts of healing items, and a majority of the healing in the later parts of the game in between (or during) fights will come from healing spells. Due to the random encounter system in the game, there's an interesting risk-reward to saving mana for fights, or spending it as you gain it to heal up. Perhaps something like this is what you're looking for.
You say you want your game to be exploration heavy. Why is health and death part of your game at all? Is it just there to add challenge? How does the player losing health and then dying in combat support this goal? Does carrying injury from one combat to another support your goals for your game? If not, why use a conventional health system at all? Why not, just for example, have an indestructible character and make the challenge finding a way to get past enemies at all? Why not have being hit cost you some resource, like gold, instead of being a countdown to death?
A conventional health system serves two purposes: (1) it gives a staged failure state to combat, and (2) it serves to create long term resource management with health between fights. 
In order to give a thoughtful design answer to how healing should work you first need to know why the player is healing at all.
For a 2D platformer, you need to make (procedurally generated?) places where they can grind what they need if they have to. Otherwise you just die or run back to the save spot like in Castlevania SotN. 
Agency: 11/10. Because there are several ways to heal yourself; the better ones come at the cost of sacrificing points into non-combat skills such as First Aid, or the ability to craft stimpaks (which require points in Science, a blueprint, and having paid to learn the Chemist profession).
I think you need to consider this at a more fundamental level: what is the gameplay purpose of having a health system in your game?
The flowers and roots aren't hard to find like in Fallout3, you just grind as many as you need until that gets boring and you think you can handle it. All the while, real people and NPCs can come kill you and take all your stuff, but at least you get a little XP for crafting things.
However, while healing, you move at a slower pace (risk enemies catching up) and cannot jump (limited mobility).
There's lots of examples out there in 2D platforming, it's really a question of how you want healing to be "interesting"?  I would agree with suggestions that "skillful" play should be rewarded, but also give the player enough opportunities to use resources and play strategically.
It has a more or less open world, where in instanced encounters you can usually find the two things you need to craft healing powder : a broc flower and a xander root. Maximum carry weight and the time it would take to make too many, prevents abuse and getting stuck because something is too hard.
There's been an isometric (like Fallout 1&2) 'Fallout 76'-like fan made free game available for the last eight years, called Fonline (F-Online; Fallout Online). All you need are the copyrighted data files from F2.
Healing Powder is pretty much useless in combat for even mid-level characters; it's what you use afterwards because they're free.