To test that it really is a freeze, look at the clock in windows, it shows minutes not seconds, so give it a few minutes so as to make sure the clock is still, so you know it's not a keyboard/mouse issue. Or an alternative test could be to try plugging in the keyboard/mouse again or into a different socket.   If you've already had a freeze and tested to make sure it is a freeze then you can be more sure it's a freeze and not a keyboard and mouse issue.. If it is keyboard/mouse, it's unlikely to be both keyboard and mouse, so be sure to try both before concluding that it is a freeze. A computer freezing can be quite time consuming to solve so you want to be sure it is freezing!
The first thought I have is that your power supply may be going bad.  Playing games or watching youtube may kick your grfx card into hi gear and increase power draw.  Also watch those cpu temps 100 degrees ...yikes
Another way, but is long, and perhaps pointless, is running memtest86 overnight  10 hours or so, and seeing if it shows any errors.  If so then the thing is it doesn't tell you whnci module. So you'd have to run it again with each module. And you'd have to make a bootable CD or USB for it.
I had the same issue.  Prepared for the worst I plugged a USB HDD into one of the USB ports at the back of the unit to perform a system image and since doing that I haven't had any more freeze crashes.
And you see the path to the dump file.  So as long as that's set then next time it freezes, it will make a dump file.
I have gone through quite a few similar steps such as physically clean the fans & case, and also downloading softwares such as OCCT, Memtest and HW monitor.
Also look in windows logs..applications  (select that on the left hand side in event viewer)..  again look for events that came at the same time as the crash.
After that the computer ran smooth as a tiger. I hope this advice may be useful to some. Take care when updating bios though, because I don't think it's recommended unless if your computer is having problems and not being able to be fixed.
B)run a hard drive manufacturer tool for checking the hard drive. The software is often small and often runs in windows (not needing to make a bootable cd/usb) and often has options for quick tests(not needing hours).
So for RAM testing, better is the easier way,  to try running the comp with one module, for RAM testing, and then the other, rather than memtest86.
I have other USB devices but they are attached to hubs.  I think there is a problem with hubs being attached when no USB device is attached directly to a USB port. This is the second issue of this type I have had since running Win 7 64.  The other time I had these obnoxious random freezes occurred only when I had a firewire compact flash card reader attached to the firewire port on the front of the unit. Random freezes sometimes within 2-5 minutes or sometimes after two days.  Both down to external devices being attached to the computer. No errors in device manager - no errors in event logs.
My computer is also having freezing problems and I'm so glad I came across this website. This is by far the most detailed post I've ever seen!
Make sure Windows is set to write a memory dump when there's a crash.  Not a huge memory dump..(not a complete mrmory dump), But either a "small" or "kernel" one..  kernel might be better than small..   but if kernel turns out to be too big then use small.   
Another thing one can try is testing RAM The easy way is if you have more than one e.g. you have two RAM modules. So you run the computer with one RAM module, then see if it freezes. Then try running it with just the other RAM module.  The slots are labelled DIMM0 DIMM1 DIMM2 you'd see with a torch or MBRD manual. So just use the first slot, DIMM0  when you have one RAM module in there.
http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-vTooTxWDEpk/U7wCYWKZm3I/AAAAAAAACRI/Zpwe2sT-hwc/s1600/uptime002-eventlogVista.jpg
Make sure you were using latest memtest86+ vesrion. I had memory problems with my PC and dig out some old recovery CD with memtest. It runned fine, kinda slow but found no errors. After some more research I was almost sure it was memmory so I downloaded newest version and burned it on my working laptop. It runned much faster and this time found memmory errors.