Technical cable length limit is 100m/328ft.  Some folks have had luck getting runs of 200m.  Ethernet surge protectors aren't the right tools for the task of amplifying the signal or squelching noise.  Assuming no impediments to the cable run (notably interference generating sources), would suspect inadequate cabling and/or below standard termination.  
PS - Don't be concerned with what "ought" to work.  The distance certifications on network media exist for a reason, a reason which will become abundantly clear when a previously working over-spec installation ceases to function for no apparent reason.  Saving a bit of money up front doesn't seem like much of a deal when whole buildings are cut off.  
Perhaps more to the (immediate) point connection integrity can be significantly degraded - especially if the method/path used to run the cable between buildings is subject to excessive interference.  This can manifest as poor performance even on in-spec runs.
Simple kludge: Put the "Netgear 5-port Gig-E" at each end, and directly connect those to, and only to, the desired TRENDnet switch.
Could be over kill for a mere 260ft, or not what you're looking for specifically... but I've been using some of their products lately and they're pretty awesome.  Fun to check out at least!
I am trying to get an Gig-E network between two buildings that are approximately 260 ft. away. While some TRENDnet switches failed to be able to connect to each other over Cat 6 at that distance, two Netgear 5-port Gig-E switches do so just fine. However, it still fails after I put in place APC PNET1GB ethernet surge protectors at each end before the line connects to the respective switches. So I find myself wondering if I simply need to find a better surge protector that doesn't degrade the signal as much (if so, what kind would you recommend?) or if I should give up on copper and use fiber between the buildings.
It's generally not recommended to run copper directly between buildings as individual structures tend to be separately grounded (or earthed, if you prefer).  Even a relatively small difference in potential can destroy equipment and even create a hazardous condition for people working on the equipment.  
If I opt to go the latter route, I could really use some pointers. It looks like LC connectors are the most common, but I keep running into some others as well. A media converter on each end seems like the simplest solution, but perhaps a Gig-E switch with an SFP port would make more sense? Given a very limited budget, sticking with my existing copper seems best, but if it is bound to be a headache, a 100 meter fiber cable is something I think I can swing cost wise.
The right way to do this is with fiber.  Distance limitations cease to be a practical issue, electrical isolation is assured and the network will perform as it should.  Go for a simple media converter or a switch with native capability for fiber ports - either will be fine for your application.  If you don't have need for additional fiber capacity, the media converter is probably the cheaper/less intrusive mechanism.