Make sure the PSU fan is running well, and look into getting a few 12V case fans that you can run at 5V.  Make sure that you have as many fans blowing into the case as out of it, generally intake from the bottom front of the case and blowing the hot air out the top back of the case.
Opened the case, lo and behold the rubber band holding the power cables from the power supply (you know, the spares for extra drives, etc) had snapped due to old age, and one of the Molex power connectors was banging in and out of fan, making the noise.
Replacing fans on heatsinks are usually pretty cheap. I'd looking into picking one up and trying that.
It could be that the ball bearings on the fan are starting to stick a little, causing the noise. This also causes the fan starts to vibrate a little and not run as fast, which could be related to the heat.
Is it only the CPU fan that is making noise?  I have found that PSU and case fans can also be quite noisy when they are failing.
You mention that you have removed all the dust you can find...  There may be dust you haven't found.  If dust gets into the bearings or motor it can interfere with the rotation of the fan.  This can result in excess noise and will probably lead to the motor giving out.
And the cost wasn't too bad, I think I spent maybe $40 on it or something.  Definitely a good investment.
You might consider installing more case fans - it could be that the CPU fan is fine, but there's little actual air going into and out of the case, so the CPU fan has to cool to a higher in-case temperature, rather than a cooler room temperature.
I work for a consulting firm, and one of the silly things we did was offer extended warranties for older computers. I.e. Like insurance for your desktops.  
Got there, yep making a funny noise.  Quite annoying.  Moved the case, it stopped.  Moments later it started again.
I recently purchased a non-stock fan/heatsink for my CPU and I have to tell you, it's made a lot of difference.  The construction of the heatsink is very unique, and the fan is ridiciulously quiet.  I can't even tell my computer is on a lot of the time.
Pretty funny, beautiful bank building!  They had a 100 foot high ceiling with gorgeous murals and frescos.  Total waste of space, but amazing to look at!  I took lousy pics with my BB that really do not capture the beauty of it.