It seems that many people still visit this post looking for a solution, so for here it is. You can install the Firefox add-on Zoom Page WE, then in the add-on preferences page go to Zoom Levels & Font Size tab and set the Default Full Level to whatever is best for you. On a 15'' FHD screen I found 150% works best for me.
You can set layout.css.devPixelsPerPx to 1.0 (default is -1) on the about:config page. Adjust its value in 0.1 or 0.05 steps (1.1 or 0.9) until icons or text looks right. Modifying layout.css.devPixelsPerPx affects user interface and web pages (global zoom). You can use an extension to correct the appearance of web pages.
For whoever this may be useful, I found in about:config the setting zoom.minPercent (Firefox 62). This sets the default zoom to all pages to the given value. It is hackish because you cannot zoom-out more (less) than this value, but I could not find anything better.
This is one of those things that I've found perpetually frustrating with Firefox. I was using NoSquint for a while, but I found it to be a somewhat inconsistent and gnarly plugin to use. And now it's no longer being maintained and doesn't work with the most recent versions of Firefox.
You can open the about:config page via the location/address bar. You can accept the warning and click "I'll be careful" to continue.
To be clear, the number here represents a decimalised version of zoom percentage. So as with the original question, a zoom level of 170% would be expressed as 1.7.
Until the team at Mozilla do the sensible thing and reinstate this basic accessibility feature, I think the best extension-free solution can be found in a comment on this bug ticket. In case that link ever breaks, I'm reposting the contents below:
I recently downloaded Firefox the new version, and for most of the part it is good. Though a problem in it I found is that every time I open a new web page I need to set the zoom level to 170% so that the page becomes readable and fits the screen size. How can I set it once and for all?