I'm currently using a product from a company that rhymes with "Bog Peak" at work for issue tracking. I like it. But not open source, so it doesn't answer your question.
I At a previous place of work that we use to work at, we used OTRS (http://otrs.org/)  It is for a non-development environment (doesn't have fixed in build, found in build etc..).  We set it up to authenticate against our windows AD.
You can also have 'canned-responses' so you can email a user or put a note in a ticket without typing everything again.
OTRS also has a FAQ section, where you can put a 'how-to' section.  It also can reg-ex certain words and put them automatically into different queues.
for Software bug tracking, (the place that I am now) we use Mantis BT.  I would say its very easy to use and setup, we authenticate against an openldap server.
What I like about OTRS is that it can integrate into Email AND Web.  So users can email in a problem, it will open a ticket, and then you can log into a web interface and answer them back to their email.  If the user wants to use a web interface 1/2 way through, they can... and everything that they emailed back and forth is stored as notes.  Its all seamless to you and the user.
I've heard good things about Trac and Lighthouse. (Although Lighthouse doesn't really qualify as open source, it does provide free options.)
One of the issues with most trackers is that they drive clients away on first sight. I highly recommend Snowy Evening, because it's just as powerful as these others but is also extremely easy to use for my clients:
I don't have anything to recommend from personal experience, but I can speak out against two earlier suggestions: Bugzilla is a nightmare for non-technical users, and Mantis is a steaming pile of usability fails. Not a fan of either at all.
At my current work we use Redmine. I don't know if that counts as "simpler", but it works well for us.
If yours developers are using Eclipse, you should take care of a good integration with Mylin, a wonderful eclipse plugin to access to yours bugs directly from Eclipse and also link source code to them.