What is my best option to perform this simple task? Please bear in mind that I'd like to do it without using any online service (Dropbox, Google Drive, or anything like that), I find it absurd that to transfer some personal files between two personal devices located in the same physical room I have to use a server located, very likely, on another continent. 
but everything seems to be either slow, not reliable, or both; what I mean is that, no matter what kind of connection I try, I always find out that my files are transferring at a low speed (in the 100~500 Kb/s range) or, when the speed is a bit more acceptable (some Mb/s), the connection breaks more often than not; It really get on my nerves to have to wait an hour, or so, to transfer some songs or video files between my devices, or to have to restart the process for the Nth time because it suddenly stop working; after all, in these days, a filesize weighting in the hundreds Mb range is the norm for medium-sized files, I'm not talking about transferring a whole Hard Disk content.
Using SSH Server and Filezilla provides acceptable wireless transfer speeds, reliable and secure file transfers, in my opinion.
I agree that copying files over WiFi between Linux computer and Android phone is absurdly difficult. The most convenient tool for this IMO is KDE Connect, however in my case it often has problems in the Linux -> Android direction returning errors with no meaningful comment. 
If you have samba on your Linux box, "FolderSync lite" works pretty well, but mainly for keeping pairs of directories in sync; thus it's good for songs and pictures, but not so much for one-off transfers.
Use ADB push/pull. Or I think some devices support the pre-MTP USB mass transfer. Might need to enable it first. Though adb is probably best for large and fast transfers.
As others have said, adb push is a good way of moving files to the phone over a cable connection. Somebody should write an adbfs for fuse. :)
My various trials showed me that MPT is the buggiest way, even if it can achieve the best speeds when working (but this kind of connection breaks way too often to be of any practical use), while the other seem to be more reliable, but whit such low speeds that render the whole process a waste of time (like I said, I find not acceptable to have to wait an hour or so to transfer a music album, an episode of a TV series, or any other file that weights more that a couple of MB's).
After connecting in TC to the FTP server on your Linux you can copy files from Linux computer to the Android device: in one panel you have your FTP server folder on Linux and in the other you can choose any directory on your Android and copy files from one to another.
As the title says, I need to find a fast and reliable way to transfer files between my Linux laptop (OpenSUSE with KDE 4) and my Android phone (Samsung Galaxy S3 Neo).