PS: I am aware, that the question is very old. But the issue is timeless. And all the other answers are just misleading IMHO. ntpd is even recommended by VMWare to keep the time in sync.
So, actually your ntpd was syncing. But ntpd doesn't usually sync in one big jump (like ntpdate), but tries to adjust the time slowly and ensures over several cycles, that the time is stable.
If you turn off ntpd, can you update the clock by command line? If you run the ntpdate command and receive an error like so:
The offset -0.136 indicated, that the system is already synchronized. Only ntpd hasn't marked the server as source, yet. Just give it more time and a little star will appear.
I also made a ticket with my VPS provider asking them for a detailed recommendation on the best thing to do. I pointed them to this thread, and some other documentation indicating that maybe the CPU allocation would cause a timing problem. Here is what they said:
The reach 7 in ntpq output indicated, that you let ntpd only run for around 4 minutes. 7 is 111 binary, which means the server was reached already 3 times. ntp reaches out every 64 seconds (poll value) and waited already 30 seconds (when value) since the last contact.
This means that you are probably on a VPS, and in that case you can not modify the system clock - this can only be done on the host machine. 
Alright folks, in the time since asking this question, I've reinstalled ntp with the default vendor (Ubuntu 10.0.4) config and let it run for a few days. As of this writing, ntpdate -q ntp.ubuntu.com shows that my time is accurate to within 0.000216 seconds. So, the problems I was having must have been with my customized config (where I was trying to make it impossible for external hosts to query my server, which I'm already doing with my firewall so I'm not too worried about). Here is the Ubuntu 10.0.4 ntp.conf in its entirety, with comments removed:
you might want to post the contents of your ntpd.conf file, the output of the debug commands like ntpq -p