Use the linux app named Okular to open your pdf file. Then Tools-> Table selection tool.Then select your text as it was in table form. Then Ctrl+C and you are ready to go.
The only task before applying this code is the window class name (ahk_class) of your reader. I use a single PDF reader for all cases (and I assume most people do that), FoxitReader, and its ahk_class is classFoxitReader. You can figure out the class for your own software easily by the WinGetClass command (e.g. AcrobatSDIWindow for Acrobat Reader).
This has been bugging me for years, so I figured out a general (Windows) solution using Autohotkey. Autohotkey is a lightweight, free, open-source scripting software for Windows to create hotkeys for almost anything imaginable.
This bash script removes line breaks when copying text from PDF. It works for both Primary Selection and Clipboard of linux.
If you prefer to read PDF-s in your browser, this is not your solution. Or you could simply remove the #IfWinActive ahk_class classFoxitReader line so that the code always fires, but in this case the result will always be stripped of linebreaks and double spaces.
Actual Question : https://askubuntu.com/questions/1167026/detect-clipboard-copy-paste-event-and-modify-clipboard-contents
When Ctrl+c is hit, the code only fires if the active window is a PDF reader, otherwise it simply copies the given selection as usual. In case of a PDF reader, it copies the selection, removes linebreaks and double spaces and puts result into the clipboard. If nothing is selected, the clipboard is practically untouched.
I have a very strong preference for a solution which will work on Linux, possibly some kind of Okular plugin. But if there happens to be a Windows-only solution, I want to hear about it too. I have a license for a somewhat recent Acrobat Pro on the Windows machine. 
The documents are scientific articles. The text arrangement is quite linear. You can assume that the text I'm copying is not inside a table or a float, and not rotated or anything. (If such a thing happens, I think I'll deal with it manually). The text is frequently set in two columns, but I have no trouble marking just the text I need from its column. I don't need to preserve any special formatting. I'm willing to try a solution which removes all unprintable characters, for example. The texts are in English, it is OK if the solution only works in ASCII/strips all non-alphanumeric ASCII of the copied text. 
I need to get thousands of snippets of text from PDFs to a spreadsheet. They are short, seldom more than 2-3 rows, but each line break creates a new cell, and I have to repair that manually, which costs lots of time. 
I know this is an old question, however I felt it would be useful to answer it because no other solution was as easy to use as this one.
Because I have so many of them, using the "paste into Word and do a find-and-replace" workaround is just too time-wasting for me. Is there a way to have the line break disappear on copy? Maybe there is a viewer which offers a special copy mode for this, or has a plugin? 
If you have Acrobat, click your cursor so the cursor is blinking in the text. (It won't work if you don't do that.) Go to Advanced, Accessibility, Add tags. It will take a few minutes if you have a large document, but much faster than manually removing breaks. Voila!