Solving your problem without running into dynamic IP issues is using the cloud services you mentioned in your question. You just have to wait until the files are uploaded. The upload speed of 100 MBit/s is enough to use those (free) cloud services because normally they use only a small bandwidth between 500 kB/s and 2 MB/s. This seems to be independent from the maximum upload speed (my upload speed is 1000 MBit/s). Could be that in a paid cloud service the upload speed is improved compared to the free version.
Google Drive is failing on me with an incredibly slow upload speed (my internet connection is 100 MBit up / down so it's not to blame). Dropbox appears to have an identical issue. Skype won't accept files over 300 Mb. My ISP will not easily let me have a static IP, meaning the router external IP isn't of the type that you can SSH into. The other system is in the same position regarding router IP and ISP. Hence, only direct connection type of systems are available.
You mention that both of your friends are technically illiterate.  But are you in a position that you can visit one of them personally and directly interact with the computer?  If so, I would do this:
Is there any way to solve the problem? A paid service will suffice as well as soon as it's not required to pay a year ahead.
Dynamic IP addressing really isn't an issue.  Most standard cable modems allow you to set up port forwarding, and in nearly 20 years of my own personal experience, your IP address from a cable ISP is likely to stay the same for months at a time, if not years.  If you don't know what your external IP address is, there are many sites that can tell you, such as IP Chicken.
First you'll need to forward port 22 on the modem to the internal IP address.  This is to let SSH/SFTP through.  Then, boot the PC to a live Linux CD such as Knoppix.  Turn on the SSH server, and create an account.  Figure out what the local path is to the file that you want to share.
Then, call your other friend, and verbally walk him through the process of installing the Filezilla FTP client, and then filling in the connection information (IP address, credentials, and port 22).  He should be able to navigate to the file and download it.
I made the best experiences in the last months with OneDrive (free). I shared several ISO and video files (about 4-5 GB) between different computers (dynamic IPs), and the files seemed to be uploaded with about 1 MB/s. For a 5 GB file it took about 1,5-2 h to finish.
If you just need to share 1 file use Teamviewer.  Set up on both sides and use TV file sharing.  It'll get the job done in fair fashion.  It may not be the absolute fastest but it should be respectably fast relative to your internet connection and much easier than dealing with opening ports or setting up FTP or other servers on either end.