Rsync is the best thing ever. However, as a general purpose backup tools it has a couple of failings (not failings in itself, its a fine file-copy tool). You have 2 issues:
Alternatively, you could use a virtualization system to hold your web server, then backups involve suspending the VM image, and copying its files (using rsync!) to a backup destination. Restoring is as simple as copying the backup files back and un-suspending them (you will have a short downtime while this happens, though some VM systems can minimise the downtime if you suspend and use a snapshot filesystem).
LVM has the facilities to take disk snapshots. These create a spare partition and all disk writes from the time the snapshot is taken transparently go to the snapshot partition, meaning your original drive remains unchanged. After you have taken the backup, delete the snapshot and all changes are 'committed' to the main disk.
If you go the roll your own route with rsync, then you might also try Unison.  If you'd prefer a backup system then I would try either Bacula or Amanda. 
The solution is reasonably simple: ensure all running services that are important flush their data to disk immediately before backup, and then ensure you take a snapshot of the disk state.
Rsync is great, but rdiff-backup is even better. Not only does it keep a mirror of all your files, it also allows you to restore old versions from previous backups if you want. It only saves the parts of the file that changed (the "reverse diffs"), so you're not saving a whole bunch of extra data to get the restore functionality.
Also, duplicity is a system that works much like rdiff-backup, but it does everything on the client side (i.e. it doesn't need to be installed on the server). It can also encrypt the backups before you send them, and it can be configured to work with work with Amazon S3 storage.
MySQL has tools to dump the databases - mysqldump. I use this to create a backup sql file that is backed up, I ignore the mysql files themselves after this, when I come to restore, I know I can restore the dumps.
I currently backup several unix systems using ssh keys and rsync over ssh.  It works great and is fast as rsync only syncs over the differences.  I dump a bunch of rsync backups to one linux box, then backup exec can run a job to send that data to tape later on.  The bash scripts are simple enough to write
The best alternative, if you have money, is to use something like r1soft's continuous data protection, which constantly backs up changes.