I decided to dust out my pc with compressed air, I then played some overwatch and decided to OC my video card and CPU because my GPU temperatures were lowered from the cleaning.
I overclocked my 290 to 1100/1260 with MSI afterburner and my i5 3570k to 4.0 GHZ through the asrock z77 extreme 4 BIOS using these settings I found online:
Uninstalled titanfall 2, upgraded my graphics drivers, reseated my video card, changed resolutions, used the secondary DVI slot on my video card, killed all power to PC and monitor and hitting the power buttons to discharge them, still nothing.
I downloaded Titanfall 2 to try, played it for about 20 minutes, then went back to overwatch and noticed the black horizontal line on my first game. The line is persistent on the desktop, browser and even the BIOS.
I have a thin black line running horizontally across the top of my screen. It has been persistent for weeks now. If it were a few mm higher it would not even be noticeable. I have exhausted every option I can think of so far. Here is how it came to be:
Both seem to be mild OCs and after stress testing the temperatures never went about 80c for either CPU or GPU.
If it is hardware related I believe it must be either the motherboard, CPU or PSU because those are the only things I have not tried a replacement of. 
I'm looking for suggestions on what else I could try to potentially fix this issue. I am currently unable to obtain a new motherboard/CPU/PSU, especially without knowing which might be causing the issue. They could all be fine and it could be something else entirely, I just do not know what else to try. 
I have reinstalled Windows 10 on a spare drive, updated my BIOS to the latest version, tried various different drivers for my video card, removed the video card and ran through onboard video only and even tried a different monitor with a different DVI cable and the problem is STILL there. I have no idea what else to try. 
The line is very thin on the left side, and becomes a few mm thicker near the right side of the screen. 
Usually when a row of pixels becomes dead it means that the controller for that row is broken. It's not fixable unless you want to do some micro soldering, and try to track down the culprit cable. 