I recommend a dedicated remote shell server with a local firewall blocking things you don't want people remoting into, since allowing port forwarding in SSH is basically opening up any internal server/port to the users you want.
As recent history has shown us, there are inherent risks to exposing the protocol.  But, there are some steps that you can take to protect the system:
If you haven't done it already, make sure your account lockout policies are set pretty strong.  RDP even with NLA and a gateway give people something to attempt brute forcing passwords.  A strong lockout policy greatly make it very difficult for brute force attempts to succeed.
We recently started using the RD Gateway Manager with Remote Desktop Services, a role in Windows 2008.  We have it setup to go through our TMG server and directly to a users machine.  It uses NLA as mentioned above.  The user connecting has to be a member of the right AD group, and a member of the right local group to be allowed access.  Depending on how you want it setup, you can connect via a webpage which basiclly opens up mstsc and inputs the proxy setting for the RD Gateway, or you can set the settings on your machine manually so that each time you open it it attempts to go through that proxy.  So far it has worked quite well and seems to be secure.
I strongly suggest using the Remote Desktop gateway service.  It gives you a place where you can enforce policies about who can connect to what from where.  It gives you a good place for logging, so you can see who is trying to login without inspecting the event logs of the individual servers in your farm.
You could run WinSSHD on port 22  and then use the Tunnelier client to create a tunnel for you and automatically open a Terminal services session through the tunnel with ONE click.  This also gives you a very nice secure FTP option as well for transferring files.
Setup valid SSL certificates on the systems, so the client will notify end users if someone is trying to perform some kind of MITM attack.
I use ssh port forwarding for these things, and only allow user level, public key based authentication. All users private keys should be encrypted as well. On Windows Putty does this well, and pageant makes it easy for users to load their key. If you don't run any Linux/BSD servers that have ssh by default you can use OpenSSH in Cygwin to do this.
This may be more than what you're looking to do, but here's how we use RDP for remote users who aren't using VPN.