Also, while using chrome; disable the extensions which you are not currently using. (Tab-suspender extensions DO NOT SAVE the memory)
I know this sounds simple, but it saved my bacon on a Dell server that kept randomly freezing and rebooting after a power outage and UPS failure on a rack server. Called Dell support and the tech recommended this solution.
For the overheating issue, I would undoubtedly recommend you to invest in Arctic Silver 5 Thermal compound or a similar quality one. It would decrease the heating issues definitely.
Secondly, if you don't mind using your system without the cabinet would surely be a plus [Experimental way, perhaps very successful], it allows the heat to flow off more easily and if you don't like buying big cooling fans, use a table fan with the above config. Trust me it would work.
As a side note, I pretty much spend two days doing the things you already mentioned before calling tech support with no luck. It happened to be a known issue for that particular server but he mentioned that he had also used the technique to solve many an issue on other devices. 
So he told me to pull all cables connected to power and powered peripherals from the unit, then press and hold the power button for 15 seconds. Reconnected everything and it worked flawlessly. His explanation was that some capacitors have the tendency to keep a "dirty charge" after a power outage or a system freeze. I don't know how this worked but I know it solved the problem.
Since, I have used this technique to solve many an issue with servers, workstations, fax machines, etc.
Thirdly, the internal software/driver issues are solely not the reason for freezes, or maybe not at all.
Get a new CPU cooling unit Your computer CPU is overheating and shutting down to prevent CPU damage. Average temperature of the CPU is 40-45c.
Last, if you tried to overclock your GPU/GPU Memory, set back the default frequencies, some GPUs just don't like overclock :) .
I would also recommend you to play games with every other big application to be closed on the sides. It is a good practice, and prioritize your assassinscreed.exe in task manager. (Although I haven't noticed much difference with prioritizing).
I started to think what changes I did until this problem came annoy me, and then I realize that I had bought a new FAN for my FX-8350 and I've needed to change the memories of slot because of the size of the FAN, then I turned on the PC and performed a stress test of Memory, at some point the Windows Freezes, so that were the problem.
It can be related to drivers problems (always keep your drivers up to date), freezes can also be caused by an overheating, monitor the temperature using SpeedFan for example to be sure that the GPU does not exceed the 95°C (mostly nVidia GPUs have a 105°C critical temperature).