I'm extremely frustrated.  I'm using SQL Server Data Tools 2015.  I have an Integration Services project and I want to deploy a single package of this solution to SQL Server 2012.  I've set the solution to Deployment Target Server Version to SQL 2012.  I right click on the package and select Deploy, however at the Select Destination part of the wizard, it only allows me to select a server name (and not enter any credentials).  However, I need to enter a specific username and password as my domain account is not a valid login.
It appears that SSDT 2015 (though you can change the Deployment Target Server from SQL 2016 to either SQL 2012 or SQL 2014), will not allow you to save the package to the SQL Server of SQL 2012 or SQL 2014 without installing the SSIS runtimes.
According to this post on the MSDN forums, it's simply not possible.  You must use Windows Authentication to deploy the package.  However, I found that if I click 'Convert to Package Deployment Model', the Save Copy As function allows me to save it to the SQL Server.  However, attempting to do so gives me the following message:
Edit: In older versions of BIDS, you could open the project and select File > Save Copy of .dtsx as then save it to the SQL server and use credentials.  However in SSDT, the Save Copy of option only allows you to save the package locally.
Installing Integration Services Shared Feature from the SQL 2012 setup did not change the error message when trying to use the 'Save Copy As' feature inside SSDT, however it did allow me to use dtutil to successfully copy the package to the server.
How can I deploy this package to the server using a username and password instead of a trusted account?  I feel like I must be missing something incredibly stupid, because I was unable to find someone with a similar issue even after searching Google for an hour.  Apparently everyone deploying to SQL Server from SSDT2015 is using a trusted account.
A similar error is thrown by dtutil which appears to have the 110, 120, and 130 versions installed (in the C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server\xxx\DTS\Binn directories) during the SSDT2015 install. 
I understand that that wizard will eventually run isdeploymentwizard.exe and I looked at the parameters for it as well and do not see a way to enter any connection information outside of a server name.  