I've come across the same problem but in a slightly different way. The dates being imported from a CSV file are UK format but where the dates are valid in both US & UK excel treats them as US format. 
Bizarrely, when I tabbed from one of the left justified cells to the adjacent cell, the cell reformatted to the right justified version and retained the correct date format.  I can't explain this given that Excel displayed the "Date" descriptor for both in the "Number section of the ribbon, but it fixed the problem.
Right click on the column, select format cells, choose first tab which is "Number", select category date, and on the right hand side, set "Locale" to "English (U.S.)".
Change the file's extension from ".csv" to ".txt", then open with Excel. Excel will give you a text import wizard. Select 'delimited' on the first page, check 'comma' on the second, and on the third you'll be able to select the type for each column of data. One of the types is date and has a drop down with a variety of formats (m/d/y, d/m/y, etc, etc).
I recently experienced a similar problem with Excel 2010.  Excel interpreted dates not interpretable as US date format correctly i.e. any date with a day > 12.  For all dates with day < 13, it displayed them in US mm/dd/yy format - all in the same column and all in the same format.  My first course of action was to check that my settings in both Excel and Windows were English (Australia) or at the very least English (UK).  Neither was correct so I changed both and restarted Excel as advised.  This did not fix the problem. I reformatted the date column as text, inserted a couple of rows between the correct dates and the US dates, backfilled by dragging the copy handle then typed the correct dates into the new cells, dragged the contents of the other cells in the record into their ne location and deleted the dodgy rows.  What I discovered when I reformatted the date column to date format was that, while my dates were now correctly oriented dd/mm/yyyy, Excel still recognised two different formats - one left justified, the other right justified and none of the format painting or other options would resolve this.
The real problem is that the dates are supplied in a formatted form, the first thing every beginner programmer learns is that never format the dates, they are just numbers that are interpreted to correct format.
2.Turn the dates into numeric format yourself and then having them displayed in a separate column in what ever date format.
Number 2 does not involve any programming, just keeping the original column format as general text, using a formula ( better would be a calculated a table column ) that turns it into the numeric form and another column that display that value as a date format to your liking.
My workaround is to parse the dates as text (using NumberFormat = "@") into the sheet then re-formating the cells afterwards as the correct date format (using NumberFormat = "dd/mm/yyyy").