I'm just trying to get together the best tools for the job, and what I'd imagine a typical business environment would need...
I'm trying to set up a little "Small Office" scenario on a bunch of VMs to experiment with actually being in IT, sort of a testing grounds to try out different things.  I would like to have these based on Linux if at all possible...  The users would (probably) be running Windows 7.
Not a big impact - as long as you implement any software raid/volume management on the host box rather than the virtual box.
If you have the hardware for it, I'd recommend using VMWare ESXi to host the VMs - you'll need a supported hardware RAID controller, but the OS overhead is incredibly small. It also lets you allocate resources to each VM, create snapshots, etc.
I'd recommend having a look at something like GoSA for directory services rtather than starting with local authentication then trying to hack into a more scalable solution later.
Which tools are best to suit this scenario?  I hear webmin is great for maintaining it (aside form the actual command line) and with samba I could setup the file server, Kerberos / Samba for user authentication and login, Linux as a DHCP / DNS Server, not really sure what I could use for the jabber / irc / mail servers, ticket tracker (no idea!), and for image backup and maintenance I could use Amanda Open Source Backup...
Your goal is what? Learning - great. Getting usable skills - how do you transfer that to a real windows environment? If you want to learn, rather learn with the stuff your employees / customers will use, you know.
If you are looking for a beginning into the world of Windows Server, it may be worth looking at Microsoft's small buisness server. It provides: Domain Controller, DHCP/DNS, File serving, Exchange (Microsoft's Email Server) and much more all under one package. - The OS is heavily wizzard driven to make tasks simpler.
No. Too much overhead and work. I am a big fan for virtualization, but I would not isolate my office DHCP / DNS server from a domain controller etc. - simply not worth the effort in the real world, especially office side (something else for internet facing DNS).
dnsmasq is good for DNS/DHCP (lots of routers use it), Zimbra is a decent mail system (now owned by VMWare), and RT is a decent ticket system. I'm not sure how Samba fares with Windows 7; you may be better off with Windows 2008 Server.
All that is ONE server. Seriously - using Windows all those are OS roles, there is nothing against installing them on one server. Especially as most are not using any load / memory worth mentioning.
Now, the question is what you want to learn. Using Linux is great - avoids some overhead, small. But totally useless in pretty much 80% of the real businesses which somehow do rely on windows. I never was so far in a business where I was put in front of a Linux based workstation.
So many questions buzzing around in my head :P  If anyone could answer them, I would be grateful, thanks!
Hardly. FIrst, a file server in a small office normally has no IO worth mentioning - small office != many people using it, it basically does nothing most of the time.
Another thing I'm looking at is, virtualization.  It would be best to store all of these in separate VMs to isolate them in case something wrong awfully wrong / gets hacked, right?  What about fault tolerance, how can I specify more than one authentication / DHCP / mail server?  I assume all that would either be done on the client, or the domain controller?  Would it be a good idea virtualizing file server due to the hit in I/O if the HDDs are on that same machine?  Would it be easier to simply do software RAID?
Incidentally enough it has 8 discs on a hardware RAID - the file server section serves files from a 4x500gb RAID 5.