It's conceivable an older mirror could cause issues.  The glass shouldn't matter at all, but if they are heavy backed (silver or lead) it could be a problem.  You're more likely to experience signal interference from other wireless sources like additional routers, cordless phones, etc.
I can tell you for certain that mirrored walls in two adjacent rooms (with a hallway in between) in a 20 year old house absolutely stops all wifi signals dead. There is one mirrored door between the two parts of the house and when it is open, a small amount of signal survives a few feet into the hallway. Door closed: no signal past the door.
Due to various constraints, I can not easily relocate my wireless router, and it is currently situated such that there are three walls and two mirrors between the router and my bed, where I frequently lose my wireless signal. Are the mirrors blocking or reflecting the wireless signal, or is it the walls? And what can I do about it?
It could also be the walls, but it would depend on what is in the walls.  If it is a wall with a ton of plumbing and wiring, it could effectively block a wifi signal.
Finally as for the mirror, the silver backing can be expected to block the signal. On older mirrors the coating was actually silver which is an excellent conductor, meaning it would block the signal. Newer mirrors use a thinner silver colored paint usually with at least some aluminum in mix. It will  still block at least some of the signal, but not as much as the thicker silver.
You could get a wifi signal booster and situate in one of the in-between rooms that gets some reception.
In a new bath room, much of the plumbing is plastic (PVC or ABS). in an older building it would be copper and cast iron, which will block more of the signal. Bathrooms also tend to have more wiring then other rooms which could block more of the signal. If the walls are tiled, they not only have the tile, but usually have a heavier cement based backer board which will block more of the signal then regular dry wall. Also don't forget the tub. A large cast iron tub would definitely block part of the signal. A fiberglass one would not block as much.
It took a few months to diagnose the issue and we are considering a repeater in the attic or perhaps even outside to go around the mirrored walls that transect the house.