I use Today to have an overview of my day (and it's handy it's a Menu Extra and invokable by shortkey), and you can add and remove tasks right from it. It's using the OS X calendar, so if you sync the calendar/tasks somewhere else, things created in Today will show up. But really, Anxiety and Today use the same underlying todo infrastructure, and the former is free. The makers of Today also put out Check Off, which is a todo-only app.
Anxiety is a free tool that integrates well with the OS X tasks support (though, in a sense, this is 'email integration')
And every time I'm done with something, I paint a checkmark in this square. On paper. It would be fun to have something like this as an application. But I don't want a heavy project management tool or integration with email. It should be like download, install, use  without fat configuration and steep learning curve. usually I don't schedule my to do's, I just write down every day what I want to accomplish today.
I use OmniFocus (iGTD is a free alternative, although it's no longer developed; the dev left to work on Things, another nice alternative) for keeping my tasks organized. It's a great way to implement David Allen's "Getting Things Done" (GTD) technique, which I've also found really helpful.
I'd include URLs to iGTD and Things (Google for iGTD, it'll also have a link to Things) but I'm a n00b.
Would be cool if such a simple utility exists. At the moment I try just using textEdit and deleting rows which are done. With a nice interface, this would be much more fun.
you can use iCal for this sort of thing.  Another nice tool is the Tasks tool that comes with gmail.  This requires an account, but the benefit is that your list will be available away from your home computer.
I was also using Text Edit in a similar fashion..But wanted something a bit easier to use... I ended up writing a simple ToDo app in Python that runs in Terminal... This code may look a bit involved, but if you copy and paste it into a .txt file  ( making sure there are not indentation problems ) name it  something like 'todo.py' ...then do  a chmod +x on it .... you can run this from anywhere in your account if you remember the leading './' 
TeuxDeux is a free web app for simple task management, and it's quite nicely designed. Of all the options I give you, it's probably the one I'd use for the given workflow.
For my experience it doesn't make sense to plan what to do next week, because next week everything looks totally different.
Every morning I think about what I am going to do today. So I take a paper and start to write things like: