You might not want to make a L2 SVI if you use VTP pruning. If pruning is on, an unused VLAN will be pruned from the trunk, resulting in less unnecessary broadcast/flooding traffic. However, creating an SVI, creates an "active" interface on your switch. A quick check in GNS3 gives the following:
If the VLAN in question is 'private' that is not L3 routed anywhere (say a cluster heartbeat) an SVI on the layer 2 switch will enable your NOC to ping interfaces, and get ARP tables which is a great help in troubleshooting. If you the VLAN in question is routed, there is no great benefit except as a temporary measure to prove that a VLAN is trunked down to that switch (some server guys need proof) by pinging the default gateway for that VLAN from the switch
As KISS rule says, you DON'T "automatically" add SVI to L2 VLAN. If it's for L2 operation only, I'd even add it to the 'description' of the interface.
When you don't want users to have exposure to those features, or you don't want to complicate the configuration.  This is just a matter of taste... I never define an SVI, unless I need IP routing services on a Vlan... but I prefer minimal configurations where possible.
There are some platforms like my "favorite" 6500 which can have strong negative reactions to some types or amounts of traffic that is just fine being completely switched through the router becomes a different story once you create a SVI. typically this would be non-ip traffic, but its very hard to predict.
It's also an threat from stability point of view, as traffic towards the IP (including ARP, IPv6 ND and so on) hits the to-CPU queue. If you have simple VLAN with L2 only, there's nothing apart from L2 protocols (haha) that can influence the situation of the switch and it's control plane. If you add L3 reachability information, suddenly you're dealing with what's L3 has to offer, including routing protocols, blackholing, limited FIB entries, potentially also different QoS models possible when dealing with L2 vs L3. 
SVIs provide an efficient way to attach IP routing services to an ethernet Vlan that already exists on a switch.  It effectively saves you from buying an external router just to offer HSRP, or dynamic routing protocols.