VPN connections between facilities use either Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) or Layer Two Tunneling Protocol/Internet Protocol security (L2TP/IPSec) over an intermediate network, such as the Internet. By using the Internet as a connection medium, VPN saves the cost of long-distance phone service and hardware costs associated with using dial-up or leased line connections. A VPN solution includes advanced security technologies such as data encryption, authentication, and authorization.
By separating the devices, you can create multiple trust zones, which better define access. That way, if someone gains access to your VPN router, they only have access based on the specific rules that are defined in your internet router, etc. 
And as a secondary issue, what are the advantages or disadvantages in splitting out site-to-site and road warrior VPN between different routers?
Here's a network design question: I've just been reading "IPv6 for Enterprise Networks" by McFarland et. al. and it (among other Cisco documents) separates out Internet routing from remote access VPN.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of using separate routers for remote access VPNs vs. general Internet traffic, assuming they go through the same uplink?
While they may be on the same network, it is still easier to seperate them as you can restrict and control inbound traffic a lot better (because you seperate them in groups) based on the purpose. It might be that you do not want people connecting through the VPN to have access to all machines in the network. 
(The VPN in my specific case is OpenVPN running on Vyatta, but from my perspective this is more about the design than the technology choice.)
If you have proper security policies in place, there is no need to separate these two devices out. If you have a properly spec'd firewall, then performance is not a reason to separate them out either.
VPN remote access clients do not support routing protocols. The preferred method for directing packets to a remote network is to create a default route on the remote access client that directs all packets to the remote network. This is the default configuration for VPN remote access clients.
It's good of the vendor to tell you to split these two out as they end up selling you two firewalls instead of a single device.
Pending the way your ISP may deliver MPLS VPN and Internet traffic may dictate your design choices for you. By separating the functions you may choose to utilize different ISP’s for partial redundancy (last mile issue) while also separating the router load and administrative/management functions.
Internet egress could be as simple as aggregating all traffic destined for the Internet behind a NAT/PAT firewall/Internet Gateway.
I might have missed someone already providing this answer, but just-in-case. The biggest reason that I would separate them is: SECURITY. If you have one router that serves all of those purposes, then you have only a single device that needs to be compromised before an attacker has full access to your network, and every device on it.