I'd install arpwatch on another host in the same broadcast domain (same network) and see if any other machines are responding to ARP requests for the IP of your server. If so, find out which machine (possibly using MAC address tables from your switches to find out which port it's attached to) and set it to another static address or DHCP.
Maybe an accidental change to iptables ? It can explain both why it wasn't reachable and why there is nothing strange in the logs (probably you don't log iptables. do you ?)
I don't use RedHat or CentOS, but try looking at whatever script is called when you do a service network restart.  Since your network returns to normal when something in that script happens, it may help narrow it down.
Maybe TCP connection pool gets full? Something is opening more and more connections, maybe trying netstat (try different options, for example -i to see interfaces) would given insight about connection open.
Finally, CentOS specific thing: do you have NetworkManager in use? It is enabled by default in CentOS for some reason, even in virtual machines that doesn’t have X, making this connection doubling, routing changes and other things possible. I suggest switching it off unless you know you need it (like, have connections that goes on and off).
Is your ifconfig -a output sane? That output would tell if you have some network devices that shouldn’t be present, for example virtual devices, that is causing packets going haywire. 
How are you getting your IP address on this network (DHCP, or static)? If it happens again, make sure to run ifconfig to look at the state of the interface while it's in its non-functional state. Does it have an address? Are there errors? If you run ethtool, is there a link? (And is it negotiated to the right speed and duplex?)
This routing table you have pasted looks really strange. Does it work when it is like that, and does it change after connection stops working? If yes, something is causing routing table to change, maybe something iptables related.
Based on the issues encountered, I'd be very suspicious of an IP address conflict. Restarting the networking would send a gratuitous ARP which would take over that IP again, which would clear things up.
If actual connections (and iptables/routes/whatever:you_are_using configuration) are ok, problem could be for example in network interface configuration.