4- not seen that issue if the usb key is removed correctly but I seen it a lot when peoples remove it without proper removal technique ...
2- any linux can be a decent live usb but Slitaz is light, fast and is the only linux that could be remaded into an hard drive installation, a live cd, a live dvd or a live usb easily while keeping all the settings added ... (old but decent, I always have my boot floppy, my boot cd and my live usb to help peoples and learn them some linux love ...
I have a USB key that I use to boot all my systems, it contains the kernel and bootloader with configurations for machine. I also keep the encryption keys for my hard-disks on it.
On the other hand, USB drives are pretty much the only way to really test the latest developments in GNOME. Gnome Shell runs horribly in a virtual machine, while Unity refuses to launch without 3D acceleration.
I created a USB drive linux for a team of robots - I used Debian which was selected because it was very easy to put it in a small space and I am familiar with it already.  We've been running them for a while now and there has been no corruption so far.  Even if there is corruption, as long as you have backups (we mirror to another drive of the same size periodically) you should be okay and it's not exactly expensive to replace. 
I've heard some people have concerns about write-cycles with USB pendrives and most of the Linux filesystems, like ext3 which is setup to update the disk whenever a file is accessed.  This can cause a lot of writing specifically in the same area of the drive.   Usually it is recommended to use the noatime option in order to fix this. 
An USB install allows you to testrun a bleeding edge system directly on your hardware without littering your "main" install in the process.
Disk access is slow. Very slow. And unreliable. The moment your key moves too much, you witness first hand the practical effects of a successful, immediate rm -rf /.
3- I would use ext3 that is journalized for security and cause it can be readed in windows if needed ...
It doesn't really matter. I have a USB key with Arch Linux (which does not run a graphical environment) and a USB key with Ubuntu 11.04 alpha with compiz-powered Unity. They both run reasonably well, although apt is much slower than pacman when it comes to applying updates.
One downside I've come across is often if you boot linux from a usb you carry with you, it's harder to get online on a PC that isn't yours. Especially if the PC is wireless, in my experience the owner will often have trouble remembering things like wireless keys.
I generally don't partition my USB drives because I find it creates hassles.  If I want a reasonable filesystem (with permissions, caps sensitivity, etc) on a windows-accessible drive I create a loop file to use. 
IMP: If you can understand basic french, I would go directly to the Framakey Ubuntu-fr Remix usb key installation package that is the most avanced premaded usb key for now, waiting to be translated if you wanna help them it's really worth  it I use it a lot !!!
I have a USB with Ubuntu on it which I use occasionally to fix broken machines and stuff like that, and this is the most common problem I have. I can't quite remember the detail of the command I want to do something, and I can't get online to check it out.
I have partitioned one of the two to keep a small FAT32 partition for when I need to use my key to, uh, store data. It didn't cause any particular problem.