I have never had an issue with a male end of a 1/8" jack.  However the female ends of 1/8" jacks do wear out over time.  The pins inside that close the circuit will lose their tension over time.  The solder points that hold the jack in place to the motherboard may crack.  
For my PC, I have switched to USB based headphones/microphone.  USB jacks seem to be far more resilient to wear and tear.  Quality USB headphones have a decent cable as well, thick and less likely to wear out.  Plus they dont twist in the jack, causing a crackle like some 1/8" jacks do.
From my experience, most of the time it's not the jack that breaks but one of the wires, usually near the plug:
Additionally, the plug acts as a lever which over time can break the connectors which attach the jack to the circuit board. If you are already having issues, constant fiddling and attempts to forcibly insert the jack to get a better connection can speed this breakage.
A factor that will affect the degree that a dirty or bad connection has on the sound is the impedance of the headphones. If you are using low impedance (less than about 50 ohms) you are much more likely to hear the affect of a bad connection, high impedance headphones (200 ohms and higher) will reduce the affect of a bad connection.
This (and broken jack too) can be repaired if you don't mind using soldering gun. New jacks can be bought at very low prices. You can cut the old one along with about 1 cm of cable (it can be already damaged and will fail sooner), remove another 1 cm of insulation and solder wires to appropriate jack leads.
I have used headphones on computers for years and have only run into this problem on a very occasional basis. But, I don't leave the headphones plugged in for days at a time, I unplug at the end of the day and plug in again the next morning. The act of unplugging / plugging cleans the connector (it is designed to do that).
... but four wires in the cable. Two of them (usually of the same color) should be connected to the center lead (which corresponds to the sleeve). Other two cables should be soldered to left and right lead respectively. After soldering a new jack you should check if stereo isn't reversed, in that case you have to swap left and right wire in the jack.
I have usually used higher end headphones (cost over $75) and I am not sure how much that is a factor. The majority of the computers I have used them on have been Mac laptops.
This is (obviously) a connector issue: the rings on the male connector must line up with the contacts inside the jack.
The solution is to find any headphone with a jack that fits properly. One can use tools to carve away plastic housings to allow proper clearance.