If you are using an official (contrib) Apache-2.2 web server binary, the OpenSSL version number is typically encoded in the installer package file name. For 2.4 there are several different packaged versions. At least one (Apachehaus) documents the OpenSSL version and provide an openssl.exe you can run, though it may not be in the normal user PATH it's in the bin/ subdirectory of the Apache installation.
I spent a couple of hours searching but can't find this information in the Tomcat logs. Is there another place where I should look? Is there another way to figure this out?
Process Explorer will tell you the location of tcnative-1.dll for a running tomcat6 process if you cannot find it easily.
After reading an article about the Heartbleed security bug, I understand that it is good practice to check the OpenSSL version Apache Tomcat is using.
I'm using Tomcat 6 on Windows Server 2003. I tried to change the log level to Info, and then to Debug, each time restarting the web server, to no avail.
If you have a standalone Tomcat server you can determine which HTTPS method is used by inspecting the Connector protocol configuration. The Apache provided Tomcat 6.0 binaries include APR (and hence OpenSSL) by default, though you may not be using it (upgrade anyway!). Further, if you have OpenSSL installed separately, it's irrelevant from Tomcat's point of view (though it might be used by your Apache or other web server). 
If you have LogLevel of "info" or higher, Apache will log the mod_ssl and OpenSSL versions on startup. Since 6.0.36, Tomcat6 does the same (bug #53057).
A fairly primitive but reliable way then is to use find (or strings if you have it already), from a cmd prompt:
To peek at what DLLs a running process has loaded Process Explorer is handy, sadly though it appears that the normal Tomcat binary distribution link OpenSSL (and more) into a single DLL (tcnative-1.dll) rather than an easily identifiable (and replaceable) libssl.dll/libcrypto.dll (or similar) as is the convention on *nix systems. (This analysis will work on the Apachehaus Apache httpd though.)
OpenSSL is not part of Tomcat. It's a seperate application. You don't need OpenSSL to use Tomcat. OpenSSL is used for SSL on Unix and Linux systems. Windows has its own SSL implementation, but you can install openssl on Windows as well.
Do you use SSL for Tomcat? So do you connect to the tomcat webapp using something like https://localhost:8443 or do you have IIS or Apache inbetween? The log example you quote is an example! 