I have yet to locate the solution to this issue, but an easier work-around than rebooting is to switch your display to mirror mode. This wakes the second monitor immediately, and then simply click revert in the "are you sure" popup to get back to your desired setting. Its still annoying, but this is a faster way to get thru it in the meantime.
I found a simple solution I make sure that no monitor is using VGA. It seems that Windows 10 will "wake up" the Digital Monitor (HDMI/DVI/DP) but not VGA. I have had to remove the VGA connection on countless users computers to get around the problem. 
I had a similar issue with one of my dual monitors not showing up after resuming from sleep. I used the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+Win+B to restart the graphics driver and my main screen flickered off and then both screens turned on.
ati radeon HD 3850 does work with 2 screens but screen 2 doesn't start after sleep. Workaround. Screen settings, copy screen change into extend screen. (Screen will wake up) revert the setting to either extend or copy  This works in a AMD 64 win 10 with fall update problem. screens are Acer AL1916w and Neovo 17e My setup worked flawless with w10 64 amd processor and hd3850 but after fall update recently...neovo e-17 screen keeps in standby (yellow light) only wakes up when change settings from extend to copy or visa versa. Problem is Windows update. But here is my workaround.
I have a PC with dual monitors and use the latest version of win10. I have increasingly had issues with the graphics side since upgrading to win 10, most I have lived with or overcome to a certain extent. My latest issue has been related to sleep mode start up, without going into too much detail this was overcome by changing from sleep to hibernation. Now the PC is in hibernation mode the 2nd monitor will not wake up until I restart the PC. I don't like to be beaten and have spent a lot of time going around in circles, the PC was a high end spec when built in 2011 but the root of the problems are due to the graphics chipset on the mobo do not support win 10. It's not obvious until I contacted asrock who confirmed this. The PC still works well when running but I am going to change the mobo for one that supports win10. In summary if something in your PC/laptop is not compatible with the latest win10 update you can spend a lot of time chasing your tail until you hit a brick wall. Hope this helps.
Update - have changed motherboard to one with a Win10 compatible chipset and the problem has disappeared. 
does not seem to solve the problem. The monitor works correctly with DVI to HDMI, mini DP to DVI and DP to DVI. 