In the above cases, it would be good to at least hear from the developers, even if you don't actually listen to them.
Currently we havent locked down any of our staff machines, but are close to moving My Documents and some other common folders to a separate partition and then locking down the rest of the machine with Windows SteadyState...at least for certain users. 
3) What can be locked down to make the job of managing the system easier without affecting the users?
2) What doesn't matter one way or the other? (e.g. does it really matter if someone in a role where customers are never going to see their computer desktop wants to pick their own desktop wallpaper?)
Easy-to-use ticket systems make this much easier to track (and maintain an audit-ready position), and your users are less likely to have an uprising to your management about ridiculous policies that prevent them from getting work done.
4) What should be locked down to some degree to prevent users going up a 'dead end' (e.g. hide options to turn on fax support from the PC if this will never ever work on your LAN to stop users wasting their time trying to use it and your time dealing with requests to help make it work)
Again, this is subjective, not objective. Some organizations' [draconian] policies will dictate that everything is restricted unless there's a specific business reason for it to be allowed. Other organizations will allow anything that doesn't cause a negative impact on business and productivity. The safest policy is often to restrict everything, but make it easy to request that it be allowed. That way you can maintain a higher security (and possibly audit) posture, while still making it easy for those who may need access to something able to gain that access without hassle.
I second sysadmin1138 in terms of buy-in, but there's another reason to get input - depending on your organization, you may not actually know enough about what all your users do every day in their jobs.
SteadyState is free and will let you restrict what users are allowed to do and let you lock down the drive so that each restart returns the machine to a preconfigured state.
Every organization has different risk tolerance. You need to find out what your organizations appropriate levels of risk tolerance are, and decide what the risks are vs the rewards. Usually the general comparison of security is convenience. There is almost always a direct correlation between [in]convenience and [in]security. So the question to ask those who make these decisions, if you're not in a position of power to do so, is "will restricting this make people less productive, to the point where the business cost is greater than the risk of allowing it?"