Your test script sends 2500 xml requests to your server, times 4 as you describe (10k requests). Your FTP test proved that the bandwidth is not the problem (you've sent the 2500 XML files through a single connection, the transfer was done in a snap).
"The scripts don't fail, they just run slow. Sometimes they go faster at random.. but mostly just slow now."
ANY help or advice would be greatly appreciated!! I know server tuning can be difficult, but considering I just drag and drop the same test scripts onto a godaddy vps and they run fine, this is non-sense to me.. 
Could it be, that your site demands an amount of concurrent connections which wasn't expected/predicted by your current provider? And now, maybe, your site concurs with another popular site served on a server which sits in the same rack as yours?
I wrote test scripts to load up my server before I decide to move my site over. I don't wanna move it over just to get burned again by another crappy hosting company. My test scripts should complete in around 8-11 minutes tops. Each consists of 2500 xml http requests and I run 4 of them simultaneously. Now they take 20+ minutes to complete (2-5x longer...) for no apparent reason (that I can see). There are no system resource hogs. None of my scripts use more than 0.5% cpu/0.7% mem each. There's no disk trashing or anything. The scripts don't fail, they just run slow. Sometimes they go faster at random.. but mostly just slow now.  
I don't know if this means anything, but I ran a poor dumb man's speed test a few minutes ago. I opened up FileZilla FTP Client and dropped in 1008 25kb xml files. It took ~1 minute & 45 seconds to complete the transfer. I noticed my server was using pure-ftp for the process. This was done from my home computer to the server. I don't know if pure-ftp uses apache or not, but I'm leaning towards not.
I got a new dedicated server from singlehop with a 1Gps connection. For about a week the thing was a beast. Everything ran super fast. it is now dirt slow.... My $30/month godaddy vps is faster. I've tried all sorts of things (upgraded apache/php/reinstalled os/etc...) and nothing. Traceroute and pings don't reveal any problems either. I've also tried adjusting apache settings such as keepalive/maxclients/maxservers/etc.. with absolutely no change. It honestly feels like I'm on a pos hostv vps. A big $250/month dedi shouldn't act that way and I'm ticked to say the least (sorry for venting). 