If you can't read what you just typed to the server then it is encrypted. I think to actually take the data and decrypted with the key is beyond what you would find here.
tcpdump in and of itself won't tell you if the connection is encrypted or not, you need to analyse the packets yourself. If you don't feel like you can understand the packets directly, then Wireshark can help you there.
I want to know how people test if their network connection is secured. So, if I use ssh, I am told that it is secured. But I want to verify this, so I tried to use tcpdump. Below is the command that I used.
The best suggestion I can offer is to learn to read the output of the tools you use. Seriously, if you don't know how to interpret the tcpdump why even use it? It's a complex subject but there are many books and articles available to teach you how to read the data.
To make life a lot easier for yourself you should consider using a GUI tool, such as Wireshark, which presents the same information in a format that most people find much easier to read.
SSH is encrypted and secure, if it thinks anything is wrong (or has changed) it will bleat at you in a very obvious manner. SSHing without an encryption cypher requires an explicit command line switch and it will bleat when you do that to.
then I get the raw packets which I have no knowledge to interpret. Also, I am not sure if this approach is even correct.
And of course, don't pay much credit to those "security experts" saying that "Telnet is insecure". As a curiosity: Telnet+SRP is much more secure and safer than SSH ;)
When I connect to a host/service and I'm not sure about the security of the connection, I normally run a tcpdump/wireshark to see if the data is sent as cleartext. That's quite helpful with apps/processes/protocols where data MAY or MAY NOT be ciphered (telnet, mysql, ldap, xmpp, smtp, etc). If I have any doubt, I can always search some documentation, how authentication works, which security options are available, and so.
Another exercise of this problem is by using telnet. So, I know it is not secure. But when I try to do the following command:
But then again, you must be aware that if you use ssh but your password is "abc123" or reachable from any internet location, it's much more insecure than a telnet with a complex password or with restricted access. Therefore, security must be considered as a whole. It's not only about the protocol/algorithm you use.