Chances are that you are using a resolution that is different from the monitors native resolution. Find out what the actual resolution of the monitor is, and set XP to use the identical resolution.
As other have said, make sure you have newest drivers for monitor and graphics card. Maybe monitor came with some sort of calibration application that needs to be run first and you skipped a step during installation?
You also need to compare quality of 19" and 24" screens. It could be that older screen is simply better than new screen.
Try setting the screen to its highest resolution and then experimenting with various DPI values. That may help. 
Another thing worth doing is to look for on-line reviews of that specific model and see if there are any known problems with it. Another good idea would be to try to find same monitor somewhere and see if it's blurry too. It could be that your monitor is defective and needs to be replaced.
If you're noticing your vision getting progressively blurrier, you could also be developing cataracts, as I did a couple years ago.  This is easily operable these days, and I now have better vision than ever, but still have progressive lenses and definitely need them for coding.  
If your new 24" monitor has the same (or lower) resolution than your old 19", then obviously there will be the same number of pixels on the new one, only they will be bigger. This would also look bad next to the old 19" screen.
Make sure the ophthalmologist knows you work with computers.  As reading from paper and from a computer screen are different, you should probably be wearing progressive lenses or trifocals with focus adjusted appropriately for three different distances.
As others have noted, the problem with the monitor is likely in screen resolution settings.  But you can work on your vision as well.
This one may look too obvious, but make sure that you actually have a monitor and not a TV. TVs are made for viewing at a distance and monitors are made for viewing at close range.
Not a programming question, and this is even more than others not a programming answer, but here I go anyway...