ESET's NOD32 is written largely in assembly language and is generally regarded as one of the faster, least resource intensive products in the category.
I do software development and some of my compiles take over 15 minutes and are mostly disk IO bound.  An modern update to what really slows windows down would give me enough information to make a wise choice.
What AV i use is an afterthought at this point. Panda cloud has the lowest memory usage of anything i've tested, but i'm not sure how it is in terms of actual detection in the wild. 
Sandboxie - I know, this is not an antivirus but IMO, the sandbox protection model is the way to go. Once properly configured, Sandboxie = 0 malware infections and no system slowdowns. Briefly, Sandboxie is a virtual environment that traps all the malware inside it, preventing them from harming your PC.
running as a limited user hugely reduces your risk of getting a virus. While i do run an anti virus, and all my systems are behind a firewall/router (a wrt 54 g dd-wrt , though i'm considering supplimenting it with untangle), i haven't actually had any virus infections in years running limited user unless i need to. 
I also take down systems every six months or so for a full image (call me paranoid ;p) and at this point i also run an offline virus scan before i do it.
Not free? Vipre from Sunbelt Software. We use the enterprise edition of this at the office and it's been very easy to setup and doesn't slow down the machine.
If you choose this solution, make sure you understand how it works so please take your time to go though the website explanation as well as the tutorial. 
I have an older machine (athlon 1500+, 1.5Gb RAM) running XP on which I not currently running an  on access virus scanner.  I do scheduled scans with clamwin and malware bytes.  I would like to find a cheap on access virus scanner that will not slow down this already painfully slow system.
I also tend to check any media that hasn't originated here in a VM before i use it, but i have a spare box, and a healthy amount of paranoia. What dosen't get in can't hurt me :)
(Though I'll be honest, I'm not sure I trust them... they seem to claim Norton is a good product... I've never seen Norton do anything but slow a system down).
I'd also look at windows steadystate as well - its not an AV, but a way to protect shared computers. Don't allow access to anything that dosen't need accessing- once again, lowering your threat signature. 