Get yourself a Ubuntu live cd which is bootable. Boot the computer with CD. Install Ubuntu on the other partition (Other than the Vista drive).You can also create some other partition for ubuntu via the CD. The installation is pretty simple if you follow the install wizard. Make sure you create a swap partition and one partition at least where Ubuntu will be installed. The mount point should be / (root).
Install it. Reboot the computer. The Linux boot loader will then give you the option to go to Ubuntu or Vista.
Check the bare metal restore boot discs to ensure you can boot from them after you do the install. Do not risk a bare metal boot failure when Windows becomes destroyed (which is inevitable).
Have you considered using a product like VirtualBox or other desktop virtualization? If you want to preserve your current configuration then this could be an option.
Clonezilla is too complex and confusing. When Windows fails, the last thing you need is a complex restoration.
While it is a good idea to image the disk and I would recommend Clonezilla as well, are there other requirements to using Ubuntu Desktop 10.10 besides just for Perl development?  If you are looking to only do Perl development then why not give Strawberry Perl a try (http://strawberryperl.com/) since they have a release for Vista?  
Do not take the backup of System Drive where Vista is installed (given that you have the recovery solution for Vista).
Use PING, Macrium Reflect, or Paragon (all free for personal use). PING is superb because you can do the copy from the CD without Windows running. I have done successful restorations with PING and Macrium. Macrium and Paragon can backup multiple partitions all in the same backup. This is useful if you have a recovery partition that you want to preserve.
I experienced devastation with Easeus Todo. Easeus destroyed my hard drive upon restoration. I had done a verification check after the backup. So much for image verifications with Easeus.
Just take the backup of the other partitions somewhere on an external device if possible OR just the important stuff that you want. 
if for example Vista is the second one - calculate the space of entire dell partition plus used portion of Vista partition (for example 10 GB)