How are snapshot backups different from traditional backups? I know that snapshot backups take a minimum of time, but I don't understand how they can do this. Can anyone explain this to me?
Other methods will take periodic snapshots of running systems, which allows recovery and/or roll-back if that is ever required. The technology used will be dependent on the running system. Windows Volume Shadow Copy is a form of snapshot technology.
For example, let's say you have a file called, "ServerFault.doc" and it takes up blocks A, B, and C on the hard drive.  When you take a snapshot, Snap.0 (my name for the first snapshot) points at blocks A, B, and C.  It simply makes a copy of the pointer, but not the data.
The primary feature of snapshots is copy on write.  When take a snapshot your system will not make changes to existing files/blocks.  When a write needs to be made a copy of that block/file is made and the write is redirected to an alternate location.
Now let's say you alter the file.  When you save the file, instead of overwriting those existing blocks, the newly altered "ServerFault.doc" takes up blocks A, B, and D (presuming block D contains the changes to the file) and now your file pointer points to A, B, and D (leaving C unaltered).   If you take another snapshot, Snap.1 now points to A, B, and D.  If you "restore" Snap.0, it simply changes to the pointer to look at those blocks.
Snapshots aren't really backups per se.  They're simply using pointers to point to another set of blocks on the drive.
The term "snapshot" doesn't really apply to any particular method or system. It is a blanket term to cover a principle, rather than a technology. e.g. I take periodic snapshots of my servers by imaging the drives before doing anything risky on them, such as a major software upgrade. If something goes wrong that image can be quickly restored. Some may argue that this is not a snapshot but in fact it is, as it records the state of the drive(s) at a point in time.
Depending on the file system, this process can be very slick.  However, it's not a backup in the sense that if the drive fails, you'll still lose your data.  The data still must be copied off to another source to be protected.