If your budget is a bit lower and you can't stack your switches for each floor, then chances are most of your users will be squeezed through a single 1Gb uplink anyway, which negates the need for 10Gb backhaul.
I working at a pretty large university (I have no clue how many switch ports or data jacks we have - I'd assume 100,000 would be a conservative estimate) with quite a few separate business units. So I've seen all sorts of topologies. 
C.IT CANOT BE ACCESSED THE server from outside so  you have to use security Equipment before the Router, you have to Know what type of Routher is used....
With 100 people on each floor, the chances of there being > 255 devices per floor would be reasonably high, so I would definately consider a subnet and routing for each floor.
Regarding 1 or 10Gb uplinks, that comes down to your budget and the design of your network. If your switches are stackable (or a Cisco monster with 200 ports) then 10Gbe is going to, obviously, provide you with a lot more bandwidth back to your datacentre. That said, unless you're doing some serious data transfer I doubt you'll come even close to saturating it.
a.you have to calculate how many switch is used on Each floor with type of switch THAT SUPPORT 2G each 1G
Or for wired solution,  one switch for each floor, then good luck to wire each office or open space.
If you're doing normal 1U switches (48 port or so) I'd recommend backhauling them all over 1GbE fiber to the server closet. Labor is expensive, media isn't - run at least twice as much fiber as you think you'll need. If you ever have really high bandwidth requirements - say a departmental server or scientific work - you can always patch into the dark fiber.
First off, I highly doubt 10Gb links would be required unless you've either got a) a massive WAN connection or b) need to transfer seriously large amounts of data internally. However, I'd definitely run fiber to the closet and keep future upgrades to 10Gb in mind. Where I work we only run 10Gb for the core ring around the campuses, so that's multiple thousand ports per 10Gb link. We also run almost exclusively big Cisco (4-6 slot, 48 ports per card) chassis switches.
Then there is the new school where we can use wifi for each floor. In this case you buy an access point for each floor. for each of your port on your router will be connected to one floor. 
Regarding the actual medium, it comes down to budget. For backhaul you'd usually use fibre as the chances of the disances travelled being above the copper maximum would also be high. Additionally it gives you the option of upgrading to higher speeds without having to much around with re-running all your cabling.