If, after installing a fresh copy of Windows 10 and applying current updates, you take the machine offline permanently, what will it do?
I have an entirely offline network of VMs, that have been running offline, for the better part of 5 years.  The VMs are composed of several different versions, every single VM is functional, and works exactly like the day it was installed.
I have personal experience attempting to update a 1507 VM, that would fail to update to a newer feature release, I was unable to use solutions like WSUS Offline due to the fact the updates no longer exist on the Windows Update Catalog.
Here and there I have come by several VMs that run versions of windows without updates. So far nothing happens. The only thing I noticed is that certain software installations require a certain version of Windows in order to be installed or to work properly.
And yes, it will stop nagging about new updates (although it will try to check once you connect to a network)...
(This question is not about the reasons for doing this, or the merits and demerits of the update system, just a question about the behavior.)
Disclaimer: I would not recommend running windows without security updates unless you know exactly what you are doing
No; Windows will never cease to function unless you are using a build that actually expires.  Only Windows Insider Preview builds expire.  If connected to the internet once a Windows 10 version is no longer supported, you will be prompted to install the next version, this request can be avoided by remaining offline.
Without knowing which version of Windows 10 you are talking about this is difficult to answer.  If we are talking about an LTSC build it will run indefinitely.  The only problem you will run into for Windows 10 Home and/or Windows 10 Professional is the inability to patch it after the support period has expired.  This is due to the fact the patches that exist on the Windows Update Catalog for those versions are only applicable to the LTSC edition.  
And in previous Windows versions, the automatic update functionality stopped working, so manual updates had to be done before the automatic updates would work again.
Will it work for six months then lock you out until you plug in the network cable for an update check? Or will it just run forever at the current version and not check for or nag about updates ever again?