A little history:  I converted from Outlook to Thunderbird around 2002 because back then Outlook had a 2 gigabyte limitation.  but Outlook now has a 50 GB limit, 
Another problem with Outlook is that if the program crashes while files are open, the entire outlook .pst file has to be rebuilt, and chances are, you will lose some data.  Thunderbird uses a multitude of files and I never lost an email when Thunderbird  crashed.
Speed in Outlook is about 300 times faster, but the Rules in Outlook are tremendously inferior to Thunderbird, so now I am searching for an Outlook add-on that will process substrings in text matching.
Another option that might be of use is, of all things, the GroupWise Client. It's archive method involves a few files for small emails databases, and a bunch of files for larger emails and attachments, so should scale rather well for what you're looking at. Some people at my old job had archives north of 1.5GB and worked well for them, which was back with GW6.
For large amounts of email, my experience with Thunderbird has been bad, so I converted my datafiles from Thunderbird to Outlook.
When I was in school I loved using Pegasus mail. Never had to use it with as much as you're talking about, so I don't know if it can handle the load. Also, a quick look at the site http://www.pmail.com/ doesn't seem to address it.
I was almost recommending Gmail or Google App, but if you are only looking at a client solution and Gmail is not an option, well, no much choices left, or simply no choices left.
Currently I use Thunderbird as a portable solution. I haven't used Pegasus in years, because I like Thunderbird a little more. Again, don't know if it can handle your load.
Outlook 2003 and up can handle much larger storage. .pst before 2003 only handles up to 2G storage. But even it can, the performance usually becomes bad when mail storage gets bigger. I am not a fan of using .pst file and even consider managing an environment w/ full of .pst is just a nightmare to any IT guys.
In case you are forced to use Outlook, there´s several products that move attachments out of the .pst, store them on a filesystem and replace them with a link to the file. (Google outlook attachment)
Both are fairly low on resources (especially Pegasus), and work well. Because they are not resource intensive, and don't use IE to render emails, they may work better.
I had 30 gigabytes of data in Thunderbird, the program ran very slowly, taking 30-40 seconds to delete one email.
I split the data into 2 'profiles' and that had no effect at all on speed.  I also deleted all of the msf files and rebuilt the indices, which had no effect either.
The true solution would be to receive less attachments. If the files are from inside the company, set up a document management system. Send links.
If not, you may want to check other email clients - Pegasus, Eudora, and others come to mind. Try looking for one that stores attachments as files.