If you really need to test DirSync, buying a domain name is your only option, beware that not all domain name providers support creating records for Office 365, so you must buy from one of the Office 365 approved list mentioned in the Microsoft support link: https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Service-limitations-when-your-hosting-provider-does-not-support-SRV-CNAME-TXT-or-redirection-7ae9a655-041d-4724-aa92-60392ee390c2
"An error occurred.  Error Code: 15.  Error Description: Identity synchronization is not yet activated for this company.  To activate identity synchronization, click the Activate button on the Identity synchronization page in your Admin Portal..."
Unfortunately, this can't be done, you can't enable DirSync on "onmicrosofton.com", you'll have to add your own domain first, there is no workaround through that.
Some of those providers have a very nice integration with Office 365, where you provide the username and password for the domain setup wizard and it'll create the needed records without user input.
Since I basically don't have a domain I can add as a test with proper DNS records, etc... is there any way around this that will allow me to use the provided onmicrosoft.com domain as part of the trial to test out dirsync?
I've signed up for an Office 365 trial and have set up a test lab server functioning as a local DC with a fictitious domain -- basically the idea was that I wanted to set up a test domain/lab that's separate from our production environment in order to test drive some office 365 features, particularly Directory Sync, and so I haven't added nor verified an additional domain in Office 365 other than the default one provided (with .onmicrosoft.com at the end) when initially signing up.
Now I go to the admin portal and then go to Users>Active users and then click "Set Up" for Active directory synchronization.  In order to activate the Active Directory Synchronization, it mentions that I must add and verify a domain before being able to activate Active Directory Synchronization.
Now when I look to run the dirsync tool and get up to the part where it asks me to sign in with credentials for the Office 365 online account/tenant, after hitting next I receive the error message: