Microsoft recommends to edit this file with a Windows command line tool: "bcdedit". But all you need to do is to change the timeout, I guess. So maybe you can locate the registry file (as described my Microsoft) and edit it with a text or hex editor from Ubuntu (*). The timeout is a number, witch can be found only once in this file. 
The choice of / fixmbr in MBR rewrites to show default boot Windows, so that the GRUB Bootloader is deleting installed Ubuntu, result: It will not show Dual Boot options. I recommend you reinstall GRUB or modify the timeout in / etc / defaults / grub. Then resintalas and ready, will show all installed operating systems with a longer timeout.
It looks like most people do not understand your question ... You reminded me, I used to do something similar with Windows 2K and openSUSE a while ago, chain-loading with the Windows boot-manager upfront. I think what you're aiming for is just editing a single configuration file within the Windows system partition (or "EFI partition"). 
http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc721886%28v=ws.10%29.aspx or http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc731245.aspx etc
(*) I cant find a sample file on the internet and I have not touched Windows since version 2k. If you find it, you may paste it here or at some convenient place (and place a link here). 
Alternatively, you might be able to press F8 and select the "Repair" option at the top, then bring up a command prompt that way.
If you are dual-booting Ubuntu, I would assume you are using the GRUB bootloader. You can hold down shift when booting and that will let you select your OS.
In the old days, you needed to edit a file called boot.ini, now it is some sort of a registry file called "BCD file." There is a reference by Microsoft: 
You could repair MBR to restore the windows boot loader, but then im not too sure how easy it is to add Ubuntu again, might be easy.
What you would need to do is boot to your windows install disc and run a command (bootrec /fixmbr) in its command prompt that restores the windows bootloader to its default state.  
(Your best option is really to get a Windows 7 DVD somewhere. You do have a licence, so you can maybe just order another copy. There is some documentation on using bcdedit with wine, but most of it can be found in the bug-tracker of the wine-project, so I would not even touch this option. Besides, I could not find Linux-live-systems, which include utilities for editing this stuff. There is a program called EasyPCD, which is going to be released as a life system for some 25 US bugs, but right now it is not really there. The only real alternative appears to be the successor of the ERD commander, which is only available to enterprise costumers of Microsoft. But it does in fact include something like the bcdeditor. Last but not least, BartPE is an option, theoretically. But again you need a Windows DVD, before you can [legally] create your own PartPE CD/DVD.) 