Having been in a vaguely similar situation [1], I had a copy of many things for some time [2]. After leaving, as things went wrong at the old place [3], I'd pull stuff off older hard drives and head down there to fix stuff. Eventually, I'd end up replacing and discarding the older computers at my home. 
If the only "backup " you have is on your laptop then it's not a backup, its a copy as in stolen data. A big problem if they know where you live!!
2 - When the Netware server was rebuilt, the company was broke so I bought a 2nd computer that was identical hardware and we set it up as a "hot spare" at my home. To keep track of inventory, I ended up writing an inventory application.
You have no case for keeping the data, it doesn't belong to you. Would you hold on to critical paper business records that your boss kept under a leaky sink? No.
I don't know. My gut says wipe it, and pretend it never existed. If they know you had it, they may make a stink over it, regardless of how often you say they have the only copy.
Send it/deliver it to whoever has a faint notion of what a backup is after you have it wiped from you laptop and you system(s) are clean from it.
If you remain worried about the legalities of the situation and what you choose to do, consult a lawyer with expertise in the area of employment law.
For one thing if you created the only backup AND you took it with you, you were not a very good system monkey . 
1 - I was the sole developer and until I left, was the only network admin. I'd build the computers, install software and pull wires in the building. Many times, our hardware was upgraded only by dumpster diving in the business park.
The problem with "saving people from their own stupidity" is that they may procreate and unfortunately many already have. When you accept money from them, you still have to do your job ( and hope they don't procreate :) ) 
3 - The computer I had originally used for development was issued to the receptionist, who deleted visual studio and the source code because she wanted more room for games. 
Years after throwing out the last computer and last hard drive with any of the source for the inventory control application, and moving to another state, I ended up getting a nastygram from a lawyer. It appears that nothing was backed up, the UPSes didn't get their batteries replaced (so they were essentially surge suppressors), the source code was deleted, and the lawyer wanted me to fix the problem and to pay for fixing the problem. 
My recommendation is based on one question. Did the employer give the approval to make this VM at home?  
As a freelancer you need to keep a very strict separation between your systems and their systems, especially where things like backups are concerned. In the future, make sure they know what you're going to do with their data before you actually touch any of it. Tell them your retention policy, and when your contract is up, dump it on 'em and delete the traces. Write it up, and make 'em sign it. 
I believe you should put the data/VM or whatever it is you have on a USB stick or DVD or whatever it will fit on Then you'll have a backup.
You can buy cheap boilerplate NDA forms at various places online. It's worth it, and it tends to calm down the people you're working with.
Yes: burn it to a disc, then give the disc to the ex-employer and then delete all copies of it at home.   
What did the terms of your employment (contract, employee handbook, etc) say about the disposition of company assets when your employment ended?  Did they say that you needed to return everything?  Destroy copies of files and programs?  The terms of your employment may suggest to you the appropriate course of action.