In particular, it looks like you're saying that sda2 is located within sda1.  Partitions don't exist within other partitions, and GPT is a characteristic of the whole-disk device, not a partition.  I think what you actually mean is:
mdadm doesn't recognize partitions, the Linux kernel does.  A software RAID array doesn't need to know or care what type of partitions the disk uses, because it just uses the block devices that the kernel provides for the partitions.  I'm using mdadm arrays on GPT disks on several computers and they work fine.
However, your blkid output says that /dev/sda1 currently contains an Ext4 filesystem, not a RAID superblock — it's not a member of md127.  It's not clear how that filesystem got there, since you said that you were using it as a RAID component, but since your story is long and full of twists, I suspect there may have been points where things happened that you didn't realize had happened.  My suggestion at this point is:
As for installing GRUB, it depends on whether your machine supports EFI (and whether you're using it for booting).  If you're using EFI, you need to make an EFI system partition somewhere; it should be roughly 100MB, formatted FAT32.  Then you'd install the EFI version of GRUB.  I won't go into too much detail on this; EFI booting is a topic for a separate question.
If you're not using EFI to boot, you need to make a "BIOS Boot" partition somewhere on the disk that you'll be installing GRUB on.  (This is partition type code ef02 in gdisk.)  The partition can be tiny; 1MB is plenty.  GRUB will use this to store the boot code that it would have written to sectors 1 through 62 on an MBR disk.  (On an MBR disk, those sectors are typically unallocated since the first partition typically begins at sector 63, but on a GPT disk, the partition table is located in that area.)  GRUB should automatically notice that the disk you're installing it to contains a BIOS Boot partition, and put its boot code there instead of in sectors 1-62.