You need to use TAP if you want to connect to the actual remote network (printers, remote desktops, etc.)
TUN - if you ONLY need access to resources connected directly to the OpenVPN server machine at the other end, and there are no Windows issues. A little creativity here can help, by making resources "appear" to be local to the OpenVPN server. (examples might be a CUPS connection to a network printer, or a Samba share on another machine MOUNTed on the OpenVPN server.)
Then I discovered the "topology subnet" option on the server. Works with the 2.1 RCs (not 2.0), but it gives me all the advantages of tun (no bridging, performance, routing, etc) with the convenience of one (sequential) IP address per (windows) machine.
I chose "tap" when setting up a VPN for a friend who owned a small business because his office uses a tangle of Windows machines, commercial printers, and a Samba file server. Some of them use pure TCP/IP, some seem to only use NetBIOS (and thus need Ethernet broadcast packets) to communicate, and some I'm not even sure of.
On older hardware you might notice the impact more, but on modern hardware it's really down to the minimum.
There are differences in latency because of the stack layer, but in most end-user scenarios the connection speed of the endpoints is probably a more significant contributor to latency than the particular stack layer of the transmission. If latency is at issue, it might be a good idea to consider other alternatives. Current GHz-level multiprocessors normally outrun the bottleneck of transmission via the internet.
But by choosing "tap", I tell the VPN to make remote machines feel exactly like they're on the LAN, with broadcast Ethernet packets and raw Ethernet protocols available for communicating with printers and file servers and for powering their Network Neighborhood display. It works great, and I never get reports of things that don't work offsite!
so you'd have something between 360Mbps and 600Mbps with a connection between E3-1231 v3 cpu doing tap AES265 cipher, auth SHA256 and ta.key, certificates tls-cipher I also used the highest TLS-DHE-RSA-WITH-AES-256-SHA256
with tap there are many solutions about subnetting, i found myself the easiest way is to use a class B subnet.
E3-1231 v3 gets at least 360Mbps with encryption (this is interpolated from my findings with case 1 and 2 because I didn't have 2 E3-1231 v3 to test with.)
These are my findings based on windows to windows copying between 2 clients in 2 different subnets connected by openvpn TAP
Of course if you know how to setup TUN but don't understand what you're doing and simply following a tun tutorial, you will be fighting to setup TAP but not because it's more difficult but because you don't know what you're doing. Which easily can lead to network conflicts in a TAP environment and then it looks like it's more complicated.
TAP - if you need access to multiple resources (machines, storage, printers, devices) connected via the network at the other end. TAP may also be required for certain Windows applications. 
TUN normally confines VPN access to a single machine (IP address) and therefore (presumably) better security through limited connectivity to the far-side network. TUN connection will create less load on the VPN tunnel, and in turn the far-side network because only traffic to/from the single IP address will cross the VPN to the other side. IP Routes to other stations in the subnet are not included, so traffic is not sent across the VPN tunnel and little or no communication is possible beyond the OpenVPN server. 
using dnsmasq dhcp-host=20:a9:9b:22:33:44,ignore for example will be a huge task to setup on all dhcp servers.
the overhead of the tap, roughly 32 to the tun, isn't that much a problem either (might be on unencrypted networks) but on encrypted networks it's usually the AES that will cause the slowdown.
I started out using tun, but switched to tap since I didn't like the use of a /30 subnet for each PC (I need to support Windows). I found that to be wasteful and confusing.
fact is, if you don't need a tutorial because you know what you're doing, setting up tap takes as much time as setting up tun.
IF, however each site has it's own DHCP, and it should have, you need to make sure using ebtables or iptables or dnsmasq to block dhcp distribution to go wild. ebtables however will slow down the performance.
My other end: E3-1231 v3, then was roughly at 7% CPU utilization, around 25% of the core openvpn was using was utilized. So the E3 most likely could increase the connection by 3 to 4 times.
Is a Ferrari "better" than a dump truck? If you are trying to go fast, it may be; but if you're trying to haul heavy loads, probably not. Constraints like "need for access" and "security requirements" must be defined, as well as defining constraints like network throughput and equipment limitations, before one can decide whether TUN or TAP is better-suited to your needs. 
but openvpn doesn't do encryption on 1500 and a 2nd encryption on the 32 overhead. Instead it does a 1 time encryption on 1500+32overhead.
TAP - usually allows packets to flow freely between the endpoints. This gives the flexibility of communication with other stations on the far-side network, including some methods used by older Microsoft software. TAP has the inherent security exposures involved with granting outside access "behind the firewall". It will allow more traffic packets to flow through the VPN tunnel. This also opens the possibility of address conflicts between the endpoints.
If I had chosen "tun", I would probably have faced lots of broken services — lots of things that worked while you are in the office physically, but then would break when you went off-site and your laptop couldn't "see" the devices on the Ethernet subnet anymore.
On my wrt3200acm for instance unencrypted I get 360Mbps. Using encryption it goes down to 54-100Mbps depending on what kind of encryption I choose)
Some report dedicated routers WITH AES hardware encryption support getting as high as 400Mbps! 3 times faster then a i5-3570k can do (which on my test system couldn't get higher then 150Mbps at 100% of 1 core utilization)
each subnet can have over 200 clients in itself. Makes a total of 40.000 clients you can handle (doubt oVPN can handle that but as you see, setting up proper subnetting will give you more then enough as you most likely ever need)