A title is just a title so it will vary from company to company, but usually a game designer does a lot of scripting of events/quests etc. and if you are hired on as a straight up programmer it is very unlikely that you will have any input into the game design.
In short being a programmer for a game company is not much different from other places, while being a game designer means you will design games but will usually also have to know a decent amount about coding or at least scripting.
At my previous job as a backend dev at a game studio, the programmers had very little input into the gameplay/mechanics of the game. Occasionally a game designer or UI/UX designer would ask me if something they wanted to do was feasible, but that was the extent of my input into the design of the game.
I have worked on a big-name game officially as the AI programmer, in truth I didn't have that much interest in other design aspects but I had to analyze the game mechanics carefully and do an awful lot of play-testing in the process of implementing the AI. As such I ended up in a good position to critique design aspects. My suggestions on design were almost always well received and sometimes even implemented verbatim.
That was at a mid-size studio of around 40 people, at a small indie studio you would likely have much more input as a programmer.
Something to keep in mind is that at my former studio, there were somewhere between 10-15 programmers and 1 game designer. If you want to create games, please please think about your job prospects. If you stick with programming, you can create anything you want on your own time. As a game designer, you may or may not be able to build very much without a team behind you. Programming is also a more transferable skill, which is handy if you discover that making games for a living takes the fun out of it, or if you end up working for a studio that goes under (sadly not uncommon in such a hit-driven industry), or for any reason want to relocate to an area without a strong games industry.
Dev teams are usually, well, teams, and everyone ultimately works together. If you're smart enough to be on the team, you're also smart enough for your opinion to be taken seriously even in areas outside your official role.