I would advise against distributing emails between support as you're suggesting - what happens if one person is off sick and you forget to remove their email from the pool/list? Whoever emails support@ and has their emails sent to that individual will be annoyed that their issue(s) aren't being dealt with.
My recomendation would be to look into a issue tracking type of system. In fact you could use FogBugz for something like this with their Customer Email handling system.
This would allow your users to use a web based portal in which everyone can see the incoming messages, and see if anyone else has already responded. It also has the benefit of allowing other to see those responses and follow-up if the original responder is unavailable.
There is no way to have Exchange do what you want, and as others have noted, it is a bad idea for other reasons.  I also encourage the idea of an issue tracking system, but that takes cash, time or both.
On the server, in the support box properties you can give max, tim and mike permissions to manage the support mailbox. You can also give them permission to "send on behalf of" the support box.
I have an Exchange Server 2003 Enterprise Service Pack 2 that puts incoming email into exchange email accounts for employees to use. Is it possible to configure it so it will put incoming email to address like support@company.com in a random mailbox of employees who answers support question? For example, if 3 employees has emails like max@company.com, tim@company@.com and mike@company.com it will put incoming email to support@company.com into one of this 3 mailboxes, at random?
Either go with a distribution/mailing list or issue tracking system. You could still keep support handling the emails and manually adding them to the tracking system, then have them work from it if you'd prefer, rather than an automated system.
For Outlook, somewhere in the properties of their mail profile there is an "open other mailbox" selector.  Add support. I think (but am not sure) that this can also be controlled via group policy.
What you can do is give max, tim and mike the rights to look at the support mailbox, and configure their Outlook to open that mailbox in addition to their mailbox when they start Outlook.