I run Windows 7's disk defragmenter utility, and analysis reports 0% fragmentation on this 98.2% full drive. 
Today I installed an application and copied some data to it, and it is now almost completely full: Windows Explorer reports 34GB free out of 1.81TB total space. 
Hard drives do have the capabilitiy to conduct self tests for SMART, and I believe they do this periodically - would guess some do this by default.
So is this the explanation? Modern hard disk firmwares now defragment automatically? Does this mean that disk defrag software has now become completely obsolete? 
And so it went like this for a good 10 minutes, me not being sure if my drive was slowly dying. I installed HD Tune and was slightly relieved to see no SMART warnings. I have no means of backing up this much data: It would never be worth the cost. So if it was going to die, the data would die with it. 
NTFS nowadays uses space reservations, thus copying big files they are highly likley to avoid fragmentation
Windows 7 has the Disk Defragmenter software on a schedule. By default it occurs once a week. Some drives still need to be defragged. Solid State Drives do not need this and would actually hurt the life of the drive. There is no software in the platter drives that auto defragment.
If you do find a firmware update for your drive, DO NOT try to apply the update over the USB enclosure.  Directly connect the drive.
Windows defragmenter will not defragment drives with less than 20% free space (10% after reserving MFT)
They do not defragment automatically.  Hard drives are ignorant of any arrangement of the data other than a given LBA = 512 or 4096 bytes.
Your HDD activity can come from various sources, OS indexing your files for search on the new HDD, anti-virus software doing some random scanning etc...
For about 10 minutes it continually made a noise which was rather alarming to me. It sounded like the disk was being accessed, it would thrash for about 1 second or two, then pause for about a second, then start up again. It continued even when the drive was no longer being accessed according to Resource Monitor, and indeed even after I removed the device via "Safely Remove Hardware" this continued until I powered it off. I carefully picked the drive up while it was doing this and I could feel a slight vibration as it made the noise. Surely it was the read head moving across a large portion of its range. I also noticed that during the actual thrashing the HDD activity light was not active but it came on during the second-or-so pauses. 