We don't allow people to store personal music/video files on company machines.  We don't do it because of storage implications as that's a relative non-issue - we do it because we don't know, and don't have the resource to find out if we did want to know, the copyright situation of those files.
Depending on your file server, you may be able to exclude certain file types from being stored at all, and you can usually exclude certain file types from backups as well depending on the backup software.  Windows 2003 has File Server Resource Manager that allows you to set quotas, file screens, etc...
I have seen a lot of companies where the IT department is a total pain-in-the-ass, making their coworkers miserable day after day. Please work hard towards not being one of those. Keep in mind that you are there to help your coworkers make the best of their working day :)
Regardless, you'll need to get buy-in/support from senior management, but I've had no issues implementing the following policy on my customer's offices:
No one seems to be mentioning the legal side of things here.  There are huge copyright infringement issues surrounding storing MP3s on corporate servers.  Any CIO worth his/her salt will ban MP3 storage on corporate PCs or servers.  
Whatever you do, you are going to need management support for it.  IT can rarely set its own policies without this support (especially if your policy affects management - like if they are also storing mp3s on the server...)  Users generally get upset when things stop working the way they always have as well so you are going to need to communicate with them BEFORE you make any changes too.  Company storage of mp3s is not a good idea even if you don't have any SLA on the data and it could disappear at any time since it could lead to legal issues (can you be certain that NONE of the mp3s are copyrighted?).  Again, this is a small chance, but it is still there.
If legal/copyright issues are a concern, have employees sign a waiver that says anything they put in those directories is solely their own responsibility.
An 8gb USB stick costs next to nothing, if people want to play their music on a company PC they're welcome, just don't store it on one.
Where did the music come from?  If they're downloading it on their company PC, you have some bigger issues.  If they're plugging in their portable MP3 players, that has to stop: there's no reason why they need to setup iTunes or whatever and have their personal library on their own machines.
Exclude music and video directories from your backups entirely, and let your coworkers know that those directories are provided as-is, not backed up and they shouldn't put important stuff there. 
Some people seem to view music files differently to the way they would if, say, a user wanted to store a bunch of ripped video games on a company owned machine.