In your case, incoming packets on port 80 may not be forwarded to the router in the DMZ, because something else is taking precedence: the built-in webserver of the outer router. With most other ports, your setup would probably work fine, but in this case, you'll have to forward port 80 manually from the first router to the second, then from the second to the server.
and after doing so, when I type my live IP I still see my router of 192.168.0.1 instead of my IIS. What am I missing?
I am trying to access IIS through web but unable to do so. Basically I have a router (which functions as router and modem) that is given by ISP and I have another router connected to the router given by ISP. My ISP's router can be visited through 192.168.0.1 and the router that I connected to ISP's router can be visited through 192.168.1.1
Find out what is the IP address of your ASUS router's wan port (should be 192.168.0.xxx). Enter that address in ISP router's DMZ settings.
Note that 192.168.1.1 is the address of the Asus's LAN interface and cannot be used outside of this network. If you're addressing the machine from outside, you would use the external IP, perhaps 192.168.0.2. If that doesn't fix the problem, try the following.
2) The routers own web-interface (also on port 80) is interfering: Try to place that on another port (if possible) and make sure it's not enabled to be accessed from the internet side of things. (That's something that should disabled at all times anyway.) This applies to BOTH routers.
Without exact knowledge of the devices in question: In general 2 other issues can come into play in such a configuration:
1) Either or both the routers don't support back-traversal across NAT: Meaning that when you test from the 192.168.. side you can't connect to the outside ip-address at all.   
And although you've forwarded port 80 on the other router, I think that port forwarding will only work if it's performing NAT between a public IP address and an internal/private (eg 192.168.x.x) address.  Since the Asus router isn't directly connected to the internet, it does not have an external IP and so it probably isn't performing any NAT.
On most routers, DMZ works by forwarding packets to a single host if the router does not know what to do with them otherwise. If packets are intended for a different machine, for instance based on a forwarded port or established connection, you would not want the DMZ settings to interfere.
Based on your description, it would appear that the Asus router's WAN interface is hooked up the other router's LAN interface, thus seperating the network, and that both networks operate on their own subnet. The following answer assumes this.