So case in point, just because some CPU's are clockable 1GH higher, does not standard make for manufacturers like Intel. Oh and like mentioned already, if they failed to be that 1ghz higher they would be doing a HELL of a lot of RMA's
So, while not every i7 can hit 4GHz without added voltage/cooling, some of them could, and if Intel really had to, they'd hand-pick the ones that can and sell them as a separate, higher model in their range. This is called "binning".
For the CPUs to run faster than their rated clock speed ( hence "overclocking") - you'll have to do certain changes. Changes such as replacing stock cooling with aftermarket cooling for better heat dissipation. CPU's are "locked" to run at frequencies which are determined after running through a set of tests without causing any problems. 
My server runs almost constantly at its lowest CPU setting. This still leaves most of the CPU cylcles for BOINC processes.
Another interesting point somewhat related to this are AMD processors with strange number of cores. For example some 3 core processors were actually 4 core processors with one core faulty. Some people managed to unlock the extra core and get some performance. 
I have and HP laptop that died due to poor heatsinking of the graphics chip.  The excessive heat appearently causes the soldering to break.
Another point is processor testing. Usually manufacturers put processors under much higher stress than expected when the processor is in normal use. This way they can be sure that processors will produce correct output. While it is true that processor bugs usually affect only a small number of people, they can be very embarrassing for manufacturers. Another problem is that most users assume that processors will provide correct output when they are working and there's very little protection against processor bugs available, so it is very important that processors work correctly.
One of the reasons why Intel is not clocking their processors higher right now is that they don't have to. On upper range they do not have any competition, which means they don't have to push the limits to make money. Which means, they can sell processors slower than they'd really be able to reach and thus lower the warranty returns. And then they can sell more in 2 years, because the then-new models will be faster in relation to current top models than if the current technology was pushed to the limits.
Overclocking generates more heat which will cause the CPU to fail if it is excessive.  Underclocking makes the CPU more resiliant to cooling problems.  Most modern CPUs also have adaptive speed setting so that they can reduce the heat they generate.  
However they fail to always mention that it is running hotter, and that they have upped the voltage on all other components. 
One simple thing that most people are forgetting, not all overclocking simply relies on the CPU itself, you need to keep in mind additional resources like your Chipset (voltage, etc), your memory (timings, voltage, etc).
Maybe, may be not, depends - depends on a lot of factors - ambient temparture, cooling systems, yield of the silicon, motherboard support, stable power supply being amongst the factors
Gross simplification. Can they be overclocked ? Sure. Will be they be shipped factory overclocked ? Unlikely. 
As harrymc pointed out, the manufacturing process for a range of processors is same. Sometimes, it is difficult for manufacturers to calculate how many processors will fall into each category in a range and that can cause problems. I remember that several years ago (Athlon XP era, if I remember correctly) AMD did some miscalculations and got large amount of top of the line processors. That was a problem, since such processors are much more expensive than mid level processors. So they took those processors, underclocked them and sold them as cheaper processors, in order to cover manufacturing costs.