Failing that, you need to establish whether the problem here is with your web browser(s) or a networking issue (both which could be caused by malware).  Try to establish a connection Google's website without using a browser.  You can do this with telnet (how to enable Telnet client in Windows 8) by running this command from a Command Prompt:
If these steps get you no closer to a solution and your other computers are working fine on the same network, then I'll put my vote in the hat for a OS reinstall.
Your virus/malware could actually be a rootkit.  If so, removal would best be be accomplished by erasing your hard drive and re-installing Windows.  There are rootkit detection & removal tools, but unless you have a compelling reason to avoid an OS reinstallation, you'll have a much higher degree of confidence that you have a clean system if you erase everything and start over.
You should be able to save your documents and other important data to other media without transferring the rootkit, although it would be prudent to scan them for viruses on another machine that has Autoplay disabled (to help mitigate the likelihood of transferring any infection to the second machine before the scan).
One day one PC started showing difficulties connecting to my gmail - google would say "connection not trusted". After initial analysis, I noticed that all sites were now are under control of DO_NOT_TRUST_FIDDLER_ROOT certificate. When I compared the cert. with another PC, such did not exist.
If you're absolutely certain the issue must be with malware and nothing else, despite every reputable malware detection tool saying otherwise, there's only two options remaining:
Next, compare your networking settings between your computer and a known-working machine, both connected to the same network in the same way (either both wireless or both wired).  Then from a Command Prompt run
I'm not discounting your suspicion that malware is at the root of your problem.  Because none of your scans have found anything, you must establish what the malware has broken in order to know where to look more specifically for the cause, whether that is malware or something else.
Try using System Restore to restore your computer to a point in time prior to the unwanted symptoms showing up.  This will remove most forms of malware and would also revert any other changes that could have broken your DNS functionality.
on both computers and compare the settings, paying special attention to Default Gateway, DHCP Server, DNS Servers (should be identical) and IPv4 address (first three numbers ["octets"] should probably match and last number differ).  Any differences here could be clues to your problem.
You could also try connecting your machine directly to your Internet connection.  Take the cable currently plugged into the WAN port of your router and plug it into your computer.  If your problem goes away (or even changes in some material way) this tells you the problem is on your local network.
If it just sits there saying Connecting To www.google.com.... then eventually returns Could not open connection to the host, on port 80: Connect failed then your problem is a networking issue not a browser issue.
Reset your router, completely. This means not just power cycling, but using the reset button as detailed in the manual.
If you're immediately taken to a blank screen you successfully connected (press CTRL+] then type quit and press enter to exit).  This means you need to focus on your web brower (add-ins, settings, etc.)
Try going to "Network Connections" then right click on your wireless network connection and click properties. This will open a dialogue box with a list. On this list select "Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPV4)" and then click properties. Make sure that all the settings here are set to "automatic".
It is very likely the DNS server settings on your router have been manipulated. This is possible by simply browsing to a malicious website when the router is vulnerable (bugs, backdoors, you name it). No traces (except in the browsing history perhaps) will remain on your computer, so no AV scanner will ever find anything.
Check your proxy settings.  In Internet Explorer>Tools menu>Internet Options>Connections tab>LAN Settings make sure Use a proxy server for your LAN isn't selected.
I went through numbers of recommendation but nothing helped out. Being reluctant to re-install OS, I did this: copied all web certs from "good" PC and replaced "bad" ones on the second PC. Only then everything lined-up!!  IN FUTURE, I WOULD RECOMMEND TO MAKE BACKUP OF ALL WEB CERTIFICATES BEFORE THE PROBLEM ARISE.
I was in the same situation a few months ago. I have 2 PCs at home, both run on the same OS/version.
This type of attack changes the DNS servers your router would query. Since all computers and devices in your network usually use the router’s DNS forwarding service, all of them are affected. The “bad guy’s” DNS server would then respond with the IP address of a man-in-the-middle attack server that grabs your passwords and the like.
You also may want to check the advanced button in this window which opens another window that has a DNS tab. 