Here is good example of this not working: when I used to type in a calculation in the address bar, say 2+2, it gives the result right away as one of the results without me having to hit enter and search it. But now I have to search for it to get the result.
Only the second one applies to me. The rest don't appear (but they used to appear before I cleared the cache). Searching on the web, I found out that I have to enable use a prediction service to help complete searches and urls typed in the address bar in my Settings. I have it enabled, but still nothing changes.
In my case, the issue was simply that the Search engine used in the address bar setting was set to "google.se" instead of simply "Google".
I had the same problem few days ago. It seems whenever I am logged in to my Google account, the Google autocomplete feature stops working. I have two Google accounts, so I figured let me log in to one account at a time to see which one causes the issue. I logged in to my first account and the problem remained. However, when I logged off from that account and logged in to the other one, the autocomplete feature worked normally.
As you can see, it does not give the result of the expression (ie 4). It only gives one of my bookmarks as the result (or for other searches it returns recent searches and related items in my history).
After clearing all cookies and cache on my Google Chrome, Google Chrome's auto-completion in the omnibox is no longer working 100% fine. It gives recent related searches and related history items in the auto-completion bar, but that's it. 
You will find this setting under chrome://settings/ --> Search Engine --> Search engine used in the address bar
If you have more than one Google account try signing in using one of the accounts instead of the other. For example, if you are used to signing in to Account A first then Account B, try this time to sign in to Account B first then Account A and see if it works.
Only the settings for the Chrome profile you're signed in to will be reset. Your new settings will apply across all computers or devices where you’re signed in to your active profile.
In my case I used to sign in to my first account then the second account, but when I signed in to the second account then the first account, the autocomplete was back to normal.
I am looking for a fix for making my Google Chrome's address bar's autocompletion work completely again. Any help is appreciated.