You're not going to be able to put anything above the pages they access easily. What about those that connect with not a browser? Or if they connect with their own VPN. The traffic won't cause any ads. One thing you can do is create a captive portal that they have to go through a number of pages before the connection is created by your hotspot.
Is it possible to display ads from Google (I know i can do redirect the Advertisements, using some cache server or firewall) .
So yeah, this is a bad idea which will make people not like you, and the people that will use your WiFi most will probably know of tunneling. So either a user is angry at you or you make no money off them.
The only "polite" solution that would display ads on (almost) every page would be to insert the ads via frames; basically run as a transparent proxy that creates a frameset with your ad in a frame at the top and the page content in a frame below. Alternatively, a captive portal page that displays a few ads and terms of service would work, and be far less intrusive/offensive to many users.
You may wish to disable VPN access so people can't circumvent it that way; I'm not sure how it's done, but I know it can be done at least partially (the free WiFi on my commuter train doesn't allow me to connect to PPTP VPN, but I can still connect to OpenVPN, for example).
This isn't an easy thing to do, but, to get a basic idea on the concept, I recommend you take a look here to a guy who made people's images flip... It should put you on the right track.
All you would need to do is put a proxy on your server and modify each page that comes through, injecting one of your ads in to it. It's not terrible hard to do.
Its just like a free vpn but i would like to have my advertisements above the websites they visit so i can take out the cost for the WiFi that i offer.
You will also have to permit HTTPS pass-through, due to the certificate issue, so users browsing solely HTTPS sites (e.g. checking their GMail) would not see ads... but if they wandered off to other sites, your ads would show up.
That being said, if you want to, this will not work on SSL sites unless you also get everyone to download a custom SSL root certificate (which I really do not recommend you do), but, for standard HTTP, all you need to do is stick a proxy on your router to basically add a bit of content to each page.
I have recently distributed my WiFi network with highpseed antennas to my area which covers almost 300-400 peoples. I am not charging them anything but i would like to generate some revenue through Advertisements placed on the websites that they visit.