This will give you a list of all your active connections. Use that list to match up with svchost viewer and you can eliminate items by due process.
Step 2: You need to run cmd.exe as an administrator. To do that, Right-click on it, and select ‘Run as administrator’.
This can cause by some crack or USB dongle that run constantly to make sure the software you use is legally licensed, or some type of virus that run as service to consume the CPU resources.
There are plenty of third party tools that help you in achieving this. A popular example of such tool can be CurrPorts by Nirsoft, which is a portable application, displaying all open connections and listening ports.
All this said, viruses can also cause problems like high CPU usage, and have been known to hide as SVCHost.exe.  So, you might be dealing with a virus.  However, you also might not be.  In my experience troubleshooting many computers (for multiple businesses that were professionally managed), malicious software was the less common case.  Thorough troubleshooting generally found a fixable cause other than viral activity.
This is the best method I have found to validate the legitimacy of all those svchost.exe items in Task Manager
Or, try Resource Monitor (Task Manager, Performance tab), CPU.  In the "services" section (which you may need to expand), you can sort by PID to see what services are using it.
This memory usage may be caused by Windows Update which scans for new updates. Microsoft released an Updates which lower the memory usage. 
But what if you want to check this natively without using any third-party option? To do this, you can either use Windows PowerShell or the very popular and easy to use Command Prompt. The following steps will help you detect applications that are using your Internet bandwidth with Command Prompt. This is one of the simplest and easiest way to keep track of your connections.
My friend's laptop always get crushed, caused by svchost.exe that take large percent of memory to work. Almost 90% RAM is used while it working. Many friends said that caused by Viruses. How to solve the problem without reinstalling Windows? because so many applications were installed and no backup already made.
I've found that in the business world, common culprits were software that heavily use the disk (e.g., backup software).  I guess that such software often works with drivers that may handle things at a low level, and so such actions may often involve software that is designed for speed rather than user-interactivity (like showing a proper "process" name).
SVCHost is basically a fancy (documented) trick that Microsoft uses to have multiple "services" look like a single process.  The real source of the problem is almost never actually SVCHost, but it is one of the processes that gets disguised as SVCHost.  Yeah, this complicates troubleshooting.  However, there are some speed benefits, so combining multiple software into a single "process" does have some legitimate purpose.  (So this is not necessarily indicating a virus.)