SSMS doesn't open the database object and lock it down for you like Visual Studio w/ Data Tools add on does. Instead, it generates a sql script depending on what you want to do. It is more of a "Oh, you want to modify 'dbo.sp_awesomeness'? Not a problem! Here is the sql script containing alter procedure code you need at the time you asked of it." 2 minutes later, you ask again, and it pops open a new window going thru the same as above. It is always giving you the information at the time of the request to SSMS.
You did not get the point of SQL programming. You can have 1000 copies on multiple machines of a script to create/alter an object, but until one of those scripts is executed against a server, that object on that server will be unchanged.
And do not be surprised with SQL. All developers are experiencing that issue with source control. See it here: https://www.google.com/#q=SQL+source+code+control+tools
I'll answer this simply - No, there is not a switch or setting in SSMS that will prevent you from doing what you are doing.  You are using powerful tools and need to use them with the responsibility that entails.  I'm not preaching, just voicing the expectation.
The comments and answers up to this point are with regards to your practices and behaviors.  No tool in the world will help you if you are not disciplined with your usage.
However, if you are in a project development, you and your boss can't completely rely only on your discipline. Project manager have to choose which way to do a source control. Here is a not full list of things, which can be done:
Visual Studio does the "Oh hey, you want the dbo.sp_awesomeness! Sweet. I see you checked it out of git hub, that's all good. Here is the copy." When you ask for it two minutes later, it just brings up the original screen. But then again, you are not creating sql scripts from SSDT. You are building a database package to deploy.
I cannot comment yet, so posting my suggestion here. Try using third-party tools. Sadly to say that, but when it comes to professional SQL development all Microsoft tools are not very usable/convenient. We are using RedGate, Toad and some ApexSQL tools.
Yes, you can have multiple tabs/windows with the same procedure, but for SQL Server all of those are different/competing sessions and whoever is last - wins.On another hand: SSMS. You can have multiple copies of a script of the same object in different tabs, which is very handy - you can try different scenarios just by switching tabs. It is not job of SSMS to track your changes and keep records which script is a "Master Copy". That is YOUR responsibility.