On my PCs I use the Avast! anti-virus software, and I use the Mac version on my Macs. At this point it's mainly a prophylactic measure, but after encountering such dirty data files (mostly from Word) coming in from students, I can't imagine getting rid of the av scanner.
People may say that a virus needs to spread itself. That may be true, but when using the term "virus" for threats that get downloaded/installed without the user knowing it, then for example vulnerabilities in PDF readers or Flash players may be a threat as well, even when one needs to go to some website to be exposed to it.
Anti-virus tends to cause more problems than it solves, but there are several things you can do to keep your machine safe(r).
Such threats may already be blocked by a modern browser, which compares the website against a list of known bad sites. A scanner could block this when coming in through email as well. And even on a Mac and other Unix-like systems, where security requires an administrative account to do a serious lot of damage: "only" deleting the user data, or making such data public, would still be a huge problem for many.
I have Macs at work and at home, as well as PCs. I have not encountered many viruses that would run on a Mac, but there are some issues to worry about. My wife is a college professor, and she is often running into Word documents with macro viruses and other application-specific viruses that harm data files regardless of platform. And even if those won't run on your Mac, you would not want to pass along that malicious code.
Conclusion: You need an antivirus, I need an antivirus, we all need an antivirus. At least if we connect to the Internet.
Surfing without an antivirus is like not wearing a helmet when riding a bike : If you are careful then nothing happens, but a mistake could cause you big troubles.
Because of the underlying system, if you are careful about installation and open ports, most of your problems go away. There will always be a chance, but anti-virus is just a different form of risk-minimization.
OS X is less-targeted than Windows, for obvious reasons. But for the same reason OS X computers are often unprotected because of a false feeling of security. Because OS X viruses do exist.
I am not using any scanner on my Macs. But actually I wish that others would: if some day some zero day vulnerability is discovered, then a scanner that updates itself like every hour might be able to stop it from spreading until the vulnerability is actually fixed.
The Internet is a dangerous place. There are hackers out there trying to take control of your computer, and they are much cleverer and more knowledgeable than you. The hackers are of course always ahead of the antivirus, at least for a while, but the antivirus does protect against known viruses.
There have been a few sightings of Mac malware, delivered through the familiar mechanisms of forced download from a website or shady browser extension. As more and more people use Macs and Linux machines, there will inevitably be some level of malicious software threatening those platforms.
The better antivirus products contain databases of known viruses. These databases are growing at the rate of thousands of new viruses per day! There are large and well-founded Mafia-type organizations behind these viruses. Do you know that bank-fraud brings in more money than heroine traffic? And do you know that virus-writing is not a crime in Russia?
I'll say, as of right now and for a user like yourself, the answer is no. The number of people I know who have had their Macs adversely affected by a virus or malware is zero. Not saying that there never would be a problem in the future, but it seems unlikely at this point that it would be as important as it is in the Windows world. And, if you're somebody that's using superuser.com during the beta, I would imagine that you are the type of person who will hear about impending danger with Mac viruses before it's too late to start using anti-virus.