This is a huge issue for all of us who really care how we are perceived by our colleagues in the Windows world.  As of the time of this post, I've found 3 ways to address this, none of which are ideal.
I've found an Add-on that seems to do the trick. Haven't yet fully testes, but seems to work as advertised:
Based on my testing, it appears that Mail considers the Message Font to be the default font and with any mail that gets sent to Outlook clients (at least through Exchange) the Message Font gets converted to Times New Roman.
The secondary issue is that Windows/Outlook will STILL not map your fonts unless the font-face name is identical, and even when identical, will map font sizes differently than you expect.  A previous poster has provided size mappings.  My own experimentation shows that your best bet at a good looking / reasonably sized font on both systems is: Arial 11 or 12 point as set on the Mac.  This results in a readable and similarly sized font on both the Windows and OS X side.  I use Arial 11 for my signature, and the slightly larger Arial 12 for my message text.
The core issue is that OS X Mail's "default message font" controls only the display of the font locally.  It does not send the font's specifications into the outgoing email.  As a result, any client (Outlook included) will simply display your message in its default reader font: Times New Roman.
What is the "Something else" you have chosen in Apple Mail?  If you choose a font their Windows' machines don't have, then Outlook will fall back to whatever they have their default font set to (which, by default, is TNR).
The problem is that Mail adds an inline style to a span element that wraps the signature block. When viewed in Mail everything looks fine but elsewhere things get out of whack.
To solve the issue you have to explicitly force a font "change" into your message so OS X Mail will send font-formatting instructions within your Rich Text email.  I've found these as the three ways to do this:
From my testing you need to do the following to get Outlook recipients to see messages in your desired font:
What this boils down to is you need to create an HTML signature because the HTML that Mac Mail generates uses relative font size, (for example, font-size:medium). Since the size is defined as medium it'll be up to the client (Gmail, Outlook, Thunderbird, etc) to decide what size medium should resolve to.