I got my new board from http://www.onepcbsolution.com/  Their site was easy to navigate and I was able to find a match for my drive.  Shipping was fast and item was accurate - and also included the proper screwdriver just in case I didn't have one :) Nice Touch.... and of course this solution worked for me .. so I am very happy.  Good Luck!
Know that this is a very risky operation. The connections between the board and the hard disk are surface-mount-soldered to very small pads. I doubt there are any humans that can do this completely reliably, it's very difficult. Drive recovery firms use custom jigs and specialized devices. If the data on the drive is valuable to you, you should really have the drive serviced by professionals (which, to my experience, are far more likely to conduct a platter transplant, as this is faster and easier than a PCB replacement). Essentially, I think you're guaranteed to fail, possibly expensively.
The websites referred to by Moab in his comments are the only two I know of that will help you find correct hard drive PCBs. Firms that do this professionally simply buy an entire matching drive and remove the board from it.
I had a similar issue... My hard=drive was no longer recognized by the computer bios.  My drive happened to be a Seagate Barracuda 7200.10.  I really needed to recover my data.  I think it is important to note that I had, had no other issues with this drive prior to this... it just suddenly was not there on boot.  Further investigation showed the hard drive was "clicking".  So I thought I would take the risk of replacing the board given no previous issue with noise or read/write to the drive.  Ordered my part ( EXACTLY ) installed it and voila... it now works... backing up my data at this very moment! I am so pleased.
One issue can be if the firmware on the same model drive is different. But see what the people selling PCBs say.. and you'll get the right PCB. Do report back on identifying the right PCB if it goes beyond model number.. 
Match the board number which is etched on the PCB. The number is printed on the PCB’s back side (the side without chips).