You can also tailor this for specific product registry entries, substituting the registry query for the specific product's registry keys.
After playing a bit with the like operator, you should be able to nail the antivirus description and minor variations here and there. Note that my example above (anything containing the word "antivirus") is pretty simplistic. You should instead look for specific patterns matching your approved antivirus software (e.g. "Trend Micro Antivirus%")
You also said you'd like to get the version of the installed AV. To do that, you can use the Version property of the Win32_Process. Let's modify the above code like this to also print the version numbers for the installed software --
Instead of just printing a message saying that no AV has been found, you should obviously do something more useful, e.g.
Since you're talking of 15,000 hosts, querying each of them from the network is going to be highly inefficient.
Anyway, the command above will return a collection of installed products that match your filter statement. From here you can test whether $avSoftware.Count is greater than zero, in which case you have antivirus software installed. The example below lists all the installed antivirus software --
Note that at the end you have a filter argument that you can customize to make sure you're looking at the right product. 
That would only account for that version of AV software.  You'll have to do that for multiple versions.
The above example looks for the Spybot process (not exactly AV, but you get the picture), which is called "TeaTimer.exe". Modify it to look for your process instead.
As for the version of the installed virus definition files, you'd have to rely on each specific AV WMI interface. You'll have to consult the vendor's documentation for that.
+1 for Knox regarding the enterprise version.  I agree.  Trend's enterprise desktop solution has a server piece that keeps track of clients and which scan engines and patterns they currently have.  It also lets you deploy.  I would use this to work toward your goal.  Deploy a reinstall of OfficeScan using this.  I wouldn't even bother with the effort of deploying scripts to figure out where you're at at this point in the game.  Best to just start over.  Work with Trend on the licensing if you don't already have the enterprise tools (which would really surprise me).  If you don't then someone needs to account for poor purchasing decisions.
I realize this might be a bit of information overload in text, but it allows you to parse the results for ANY A/V software you're looking for, without knowing the registry entry each product's uninstall information is contained in.
I would write a script to be ran on each system.  You'll query the uninstall registry key.  You'll have to look through each subkey.  Using WMI is the best method in this case.  In that key, you'll see the Name of the Product and the Version.  See this example for scripting.
Now, all of that said, if you're dealing with thousands of hosts like that, you should probably invest in some management tool (e.g. LANdesk, Microsoft System Center or Level Platforms.) These tools would make your life a whole lot easier.
I would make a logon script that checked for various registry entries or files to determine if a product was installed. Then the script can create a log of machines which do or do not.
One more thing to remember. It's probably not enough to know that the host has AV installed if the AV isn't running. After checking which AV is installed, you should make sure its process is running. To do that, you'll have to know what the appropriate process for each of your AV software is and look for them like this --
The Right Thing To Do™ then is to have a watchdog running on each host to make sure the appropriate software is installed and running. This watchdog might be a piece of software running as a service, a scheduled script or even hardware-based if you use something like Intel vPro.
Not sure how practical this is, given 15,000 hosts, but if you have a listing of the machines you wish to check in a text file, you can query the uninstall key in the registry and parse the results.
I would do trial and error, but in the case of Trend, I'd imagine they'd put their definition version in the registry at HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\TrendMicro or in a config or ini file in their local directory.