New 15k drives would give you some performance improvement, depending on where your bottleneck currently is.  If you aren't storage bound then spending money on the storage isn't going to do anything for you.  I think you need to dig into the metrics of your server before you decide where to spend your money.
anyway at this stage and at this size i would strongly recommend to look over ssd prices and capacities .. 2 X 240 gb ssd (consumer) in raid1 are smoking fast! 
I guess that you could at least match the performance of your old SAN with a modern server grade SSD (or a few with a good RAID controller), and likely have much better access times. 
Truthfully, the investment into HDDs would only give a slight improvement at best for disk-access.  I think you'd be waisting most of your money if you invested in new drives.  As far as RAM.... when it comes to RDBMS, recommended is "MORE".   No matter how much you have, more is better.  It wouldn't hurt to do some profiling either & find out where your pinch-points are.  You might simply need to add an index to one or two fields & would see HUGE improvements in performance.
I'm not sure how much help more RAM would be as you have a 32bit environment.  More RAM would be a pretty inexpensive upgrade to see how much it would help out.
Have you thought about software based ISCSI SANs as an alternative, check http://www.starwindsoftware.com/starwind. You will be able to cut cost, have your centralized storage, and have a scalable solution for clustering if that is something you are considering to do in the future. Otherwise, direct attached storage will probably satisfy your I/O.
SAN is used to export block devices .. the only thing that SAN offers is flexibility in storage (single point of storage, any point of mount over the net of connection of you choosing). In speed you cannot beat the local attached storage in hardware (or software) raid ... if you need speed, the easiest, fastest and cheapest (as you already have the hdds) solution would be (IMHO) raid 10 (4 hdds in raid1 and the both volumes in raid0) and that would give you 2 x 146 gb of storage ... also 2 X hdds in raid 1 and 4 x raid1 in raid0 would also be a solution...
(My experience is from using Microsoft SQL Server on Windows, but the basic metric information and the underlying principals are the same.)