A lot of good answers, so here's one that restates the situation from a different perspective: Armor lets your health go above 100%. Many games which have armor also have special rare health items that raise your health total to 150 or 200, but generally speaking your health starts at 100, "Healthy," and can only go down from there. Medkits raise it back up to a maximum of 100.
It's clear that this adds more variation and requires some more strategy by the player to keep health and armor at the highest level possible. It also gives map-designers more options to play with. If I recall correctly, armor was scarce in Unreal Tournament and also placed well hidden (hard to reach, you needed to go to areas outside of your usual walking path) or at very exposed areas where you risked to get gunned down before reaching it. So some map designers used it has high-skill/high-reward powerup. It's obvious that this only works with two types of power-ups (health alone wouldn't add this layer of complexity).
It works out because it's expected that armor would wear out over time, or as it takes a beating from damage.  Armor value that don't decrease from damage (such as those in RPG games as you mentioned), choose to remove the complication of armor deteriorating over time, probably in order to cut down on the number of elements and values the player needs to keep track of (since there are a lot more statistics and bufs in an RPG compared to an FPS).
I have seen a mechanic which I call "armor points" in many games: Quake, Counter Strike, etc. Generally, while the player has these armor points, he takes less damage.
Looking at it from the perspective of non-FPS games (say, RPGs or Roguelikes), you see that  armour has two major purposes:
In all cases, armour (especially powerful armour) provides damage absorption. If combined with a mechanic like destructable armour, this can create interesting tactical elements -- you search hard for high-powered armour, but it blows up on a horde of weak enemies.
Separating the armor from health also gives the option to tweak the damage values exerted on armor vs. health from various damage-dealing elements in the game, if such mechanics are desired.
When you have many, many types of armour (like in RPGs), it provides a different gradation of difficulty -- as enemies get stronger, you can trade cash (which is abundant) for incremental armour updates. Beats grinding to level up lots.
When you separate armor and health, you not only add the option of getting more effective health-points, it also adds a new mechanic to work with.
To me, armor only makes sense in, for example, RPG games, where it is a constant that determines your resistance. But I don't see why would it need to be reduceable during combat.
Conceptually, the armor points are considered separate from health points purely to add another perceived element or resource in the game.  Mathematically and mechanically speaking, yes, they are identical, but they convey to the player an understandable real-world separation between something that gives the player extra protection (e.g. armor) and something that increases the player's health (e.g. medicine).
Armor gives the player a chance to increase their combat readiness above their starting state. Having 100 health and armor that mitigates 100 damage gives you 200 effective health, but explains that additional damage-soaking ability in a way that makes sense in the fiction.
So armor isn't just health 2.0. It's a new resource which can be used for more variations in level-design and creates new gameplay strategies.
In a shooter game like Unreal-Tournament, you would have ubiquitous health-pickups which heal for 20 points of health and your health is capped at 100. When you're at 100 health, the health-pickups become useless. But, you can effectively double your health by getting armor/shield powerups.