Software: I'm with Edoode in that I highly recommend TrueCrypt for secure encryption of data on any media.  In the case of DVDs, you can simply make a several Gig file which acts as the mountable encrypted Volume.
I'm not sure I understand the problem but I have been using TrueCrypt to encrypt files and entire partitions
If you have basic knowledge of Linux systems, use rsynccrypto. It's a great piece of software open source code, which makes encrypted copies of your files on a remote server in a traffic-saving manner (which means it will only copy the differences between files, not the entire contents of the files, just like rsync). If a sector is scratched, only one specific file would be damaged.
There are many good techniques to add robustness without adding too much redundancy - adding your backup to a subversion repository, for example.
According to Steven Gibson author of Spinrite and Host of Security Now, TrueCrypt is safe, he said he has done extensive testing, and a failure of a single sector would does not break the entire filesystem.
On HDD media, scratches and other pallet based errors usually just effect the individual files/directories rather than the entire disk (actually for me, it was this way only on Linux; on Windows, the directories with affected files/directories were barely browsable).  Normally for backups I would store each file in several different places (either physical media and/or buildings) along with some kind of checksum to verify the validity of the file.
Agree with Mike that DVD isn't necessarily the best choice -- HD space gets cheaper and more reliable every day.  Having said that, regardless of the media, Truecrypt and GPG have both performed very well for me, are secure and reliable, and are both FOSS.
As to your last question, I personally would not trust DVDs as a long term backup solution.  However, if you must, then I would recommend that you write at least 2 copies (one with you, and one in another safe area) each of which contain the volume file(s) and volume checksum(s) in the root directory.  As the volume contains all your backup data in an encrypted form, the single checksum for the entire volume will suffice to ensure the validity of all data contained within.  One last note: I would highly recommend that you confirm that the burn was successful either via your burning software or verify the checksum.  And as with all encryptions, your data is only as secure as your password.