If you are running the dB server your self and on EC2 why not just snapshot the disk drive where you dump the dB with Amazon consistent snapshot tools. It uses the same space as it's differential and as it is at disk level doesn't have any virus paths outside the xen virtualization.
I'm planning to use Amazon S3 to store our regular SQL Backups. I would like to know if it is recommended to upload the backup after locally created  or create it directly on S3. I think it could be more secure in case of a ransomware infection to upload the files instead of having an S3 bucket mapped to the server (using for example Tntdrive), but I would like to know your recommendations on this topic.
We are using VEEAM for this purpose like described here http://veeam.com/blog/leverage-vtl-on-amazon-aws-object-storage-s3-glacier.html with StarWind VTL for AWS http://www.starwindsoftware.com/starwind-cloud-vtl-for-veeam. 
Also, I guess you have EBS volumes attached to your EC2 instance. To increase IOPS for your DBs. Aren't you? If so, you can create the snapshots of your volumes. Which will be stored in S3 and incremental in nature.
Obviosly you can use any backup software that supports virtual tapes. VTL format might sound weird but it actually gives two great benefits. A virtual tape being an object works great with cloud storage which is object-based too. And it's not hit by ransomware (proven with recent Petya.A pestilence).
I don't see any problems to upload the SQL backups directly to S3. Why not if you able to this. Either it via AWS CLI or third party backup applications. 
This setup utilizes both S3 and Glacier using intelligent retention policies where you can precisely configure how long you backups remain on premise and specify the amount of time for backups go to to Glacier vault.
I backup my data directly to S3 bucket using cloudberry backup tool and as the data transferred is encrypted and S3 also has its own security features, there is nothing to worry about ransomware attack on the backed up data.
Also, the cloud storage providers use redundant storage setup, hence there are multiple copies of backup data for any such DR situations.