If you are looking for generalized systems and host monitoring I would suggest having a look at Zabbix.  It's more of a traditional monitoring program, but it does have the ability to read log files and syslog.  It can then be configured to trigger when specific regex matches are found in the log stream.  Zabbix is nowhere near as powerful as Splunk when it comes to generalized log file monitoring, but Zabbix is great at metric based systems monitoring.
It's probably harder and longer to configure than other solutions at the beginning, but after you can do a lot of things... Search, Report & Alert...
Although there are actually many applications out there that can do this, it depends mainly on how much work you wish to do, each time you want to monitor a new log on any server. 
If you need scalability, then give LogZilla a try. It is highly scalable and costs about 3% of Splunk...there's also a free version if you have < 1M events/day. The latest version of LogZilla can handle over 1 Billion events a day and only takes around 5 seconds to query that data.
Actually we use ManageEngine's Application Manager to monitor some client servers that host Oracle Databases and some JBoss applications. Unfortunately App Manager doesn't work so fast as i wish so i have to look for a software than can read the log files and send e-mail alerts if some codes appears in the log.
http://exchange.nagios.org/directory/Plugins/Log-Files/check-all-log-files-linux-2Fsunos-solaris-2Fhpux-2Faix-2Funix/details
Would be good if this tool could run in a centralized server (with Linux OS) and can read log files via SSH or something similar. Other options that will need to be installed in every server may help me too.
The configuration (enabling, disabling, adding of new log checks on new hosts), can all be done from one central server. The central server will be the server on which Nagios is installed.  Whenever the strings you specify are found in the monitored logs, email alerts will be generated and sent to whoever you want them sent to.  No false positives.
If you wish to monitor logs on several hosts, the easiest way to do that is with Nagios.  Nagios has a tool called LOGROBOT which you can use.  This tool is pretty straightforward.  Say you have a log file or log fileS to monitor on hosts named x,y,z... fine.  Just specify the host names and the absolute path of each log file. Then give it the strings you want to monitor.  There's nothing for you to learn how to do.  No mumbo-jumbo documentation for you to have to decipher. 
You'll probably hear a lot of people mention Splunk for the job.  I've used Splunk and it lives up to the hype, it is not cheap however.  Splunk uses it's own query language to query the log sets and generate reports.  As one example I used Splunk to generate a report showing the top 15 domains people would go to in the Squid logs.  I could also use it to query all of my servers to show all failed ssh login attempts on a nightly or hourly basis.