If managing computers... If the computers are mainly Windows boxes then go for a Windows server, if they are mainly Macs then go for a Windows server (seriously), if they are mainly Linux, go for a Linux server.
That said, Linux isn't necessarily free you may still want to purchase support from a Linux vendor such as Redhat.
If you buy into to typical MS marketing they will tell you that when you look at the TCO of a solution the cost of the OS is a very small amount.
As Jon says, look at your required technology first, then at your available skill sets.  The up-front licensing cost of a Windows web server will pretty easily disappear down the road if you can manage it or develop to it in a fraction of the time.
My opinion : I'm using less and less proprietary software every year because most problems with it are license-related. Proprietary software means bureaucratic hassle; free software means technical problems. I can manage technical problems, but I wouldn't touch administrative problems with a ten foot pole.
What you recommend is not a simply "how is the cost" decision, because even at SPLA costs the cost of the software is pretty indifferent - unless the start is a lonely server doing nothing and not being maintained (which incidentally is what most people think a startup is). Once you start paying people (as in human bodies), the advanteage of FOSS is pretty much out of the window. Why? Because 3% or so higher costs total are not necessarily going to make or break you - strategic decisions are not that simple. And no, sorry, just beacuse you use FOSS you STILL have to pay programmers. And the secretary. And the lease for your building. And the internet provider. Shall I go on? ;)
I have both FOSS and Windows Web servers; I chose based on what the programming department is building.  If they can code in .NET in even 90% of the time, it only takes a few hours at $50/hour to pay for a $500 (list price) license.
Take everything into account at the time of your recommendation and make what you feel to be the best recommendation to your client.
So if you're a technical guy, a programmer, OSS is an immense relief; if you're some manager or bureaucrat then proprietary means "stuff you understand" and insurances. I want to Get Things Done, not paper-scratching...
Non-startup? Contact someone from SPLA and get the SPUR. http://www.microsoft.com/hosting/en/us/licensing/splabenefits.aspx
I hope to get rid of the last proprietary tools in my belt soon now, and it will be a Damn Good Thing.
If Web then.... Lets face it - if your clients want an ASP.NET/MSSql solution they should go for a Windows server.  If they want a PHP/PERL/Java/Python/etc solution they should go for Linux. 
Web company?10 employees or smaller? I hope youa re part of http://www.microsoft.com/web/websitespark/ - otherwise you waste money.