Sounds like it's the DC jack. Please note however that not all laptops require soldering to replace the DC jack. Some of them are removable components. You haven't told us which exact model Inspiron you have.
This does not fix the actual "PSU not recognized"-issue, but at least the machine isn't stuck at 1.18GHz anymore because of that.
My solution is ridiculously simple. But it works. First unplug the power cable from both ends. Also unplug the adapter. Then plug in everything and power up the computer. Then, when the computer is on, unplug the adapter, wait a few seconds and plug it back in. That's all. Don't know why, but it works.
Although the description there implies that this will then run the CPU at full throttle 100% of the time this not the case in reality. TaskManager shows the frequency to go up and down according to the load. 
I was getting this error message on my 11" Dell Insipiron. Solved the problem when I noticed that inside the DC socket (on the laptop) is a central locating pin which need to be straightened.  It was hard to identify as the pin protrudes only half the distance of the socket. I fixed it by re-straightening it with a dressmakers pin, a magnifying glass and some additional illumination helps. The problem became evident because I could no longer insert the DC jack (from the charger) fully into the laptops socket, it would power up the laptop, but not allow the battery to be charged.
For what it is worth, I have an xps 1502x with a temperamental 130 watt power supply.  It would work sometimes and then not be recognized and charge the battery, only power the laptop. Sometimes reinserting or "cleaning" the connector would work.  Saw another reply on another question/comment mentioning center pin wire breaking internally and requiring either new adapter or resoldering the middle pin wire.  I tired the resolder middle pin option and it now works again.  Cheaper than a new adapter.  Hardest step was cutting open the wires at the connector pin.