So this can be in addition to what you already plan to say to them. I think that most, if not all, would get the message of the ethics. They'll understand that those protective measures are there for a reason.
¹ By the way, I did the ethical choice and contacted the staff. The staff never replied, not even to thank me, which taught me two things: ethical choices are rarely rewarded and if someone is acting ethically just to get a reward, he's not that ethical after all.
If any of the kids are tempted be unethical things, then explain that far greater profit can be achieved with greater ease if one chooses to use their learning for good. So that's that (for any student saying "But I can make a lot of money from hacking")
Now, appeal to their sentiment. Ask them how they'd feel if someone could simply type some stuff in some place, and then gain access to ALL their personal information. This includes but is most certainly not limited to: 
Try to make some fear in the mind of students that doing such things in wrong purpose is a crime and once caught, they have to pay a huge amount fine plus may get jail.
Taking the same example of video games, imagine a different game where the competition notion doesn't exist—there is no online mode, and the score of an individual player is irrelevant for others. The system has a cheat protection system. Why would hacking this system be unethical?
You should say, at what extend you are trying to protect your anonymity, you can be caught if you do something wrong.
Instead why don't you assign them as the very first assignment, to write a short 1-2 page paper on "what does the difference between cracking and hacking mean to me"  Then take the best 5 responses that have the most clearly thought out positive morals, and distribute them to the class.  That would likely get the point across better then you saying "cracking is bad, don't do it" when they see their peers don't think it's acceptable.  And you might even get a few pearls in, like someone writing about how an identity thief stole money from them and how violated they felt.  Behind every successful crack there is a victim and if you can get them to empathize with the victim rather than the cracker, you have done the best you can do.
In my own cybersecurity training, I have also been made to sign documents at the beginnings of classes saying that violations of ethical guidelines would be severely punished, by course failure, institutional sanctions and/or legal action. I don't remember the exact terms but they were along the lines of using any systems to hack any systems without explicit permission of the targeted systems' owners. Nor do I know how enforceable they really were, but they made good symbolic points, after the end of the ethics discussions and before the start of any practical security material.
After this shock, explain that each one of those has a security measure taken to protect that information. So if they want to hack that stuff, explain that there are people more or less like themselves on the other side. Hacking is never attacking a computer, it's attacking a person on the other side. 
You cannot prevent someone who is rotten to the core from taking your class and abusing what they learned so don't beat yourself up trying to head that off.  If they are rotten they will make you think they are an angel with a halo.
I would go about detailing how much profit a white hacker can get, seeing as many security companies hire them as test attackers. 
Aside the goal, one has to think about the yield of a hacking attempt, i.e. what one would do when he actually found a weak point in a system. Let me illustrate this with an example.
but I would posit that it is generally accepted to be unethical to intrude upon even systems with no security features.
In small towns, people do not lock their doors, or at least they did in bygone days of yore, or so the story goes. If you steal from a house where the door is unlocked, is that suddenly somehow not unethical? What if there was no door on the house at all? If the stuff was just lying around out in the open at a campground?
When I was a student, I was talking with my friend about IT security and we started talking about SQL Injection. Long story short, I tried to connect to the University website using his name and " OR 1 = "1 as a password, and it worked. I got access to his account, his personal information, and, if I remember well, his e-mails. This is the actual hacking action, which, by itself, is not ethical or unethical.
What is wrong is to use your hacker skills in order to perform unethical actions. Hacking per se is not unethical, as it is not ethical or unethical to use a key to open a door. For the sake of comparison, a locksmith can ethically use her skills to open the door to your apartment... if you called her after you lost your keys. But if she opens the same door when you're away in order to steal your stuff, the same action becomes unethical, because the goal is now different.
In hacking, when you talking about ethics, they will listen but when they learn how to keep anonymity, they become curious I know how to stay anon. No one can  me or touch me. Then why should I still follow the ethics? Let's use our power. 
One of my friend asked my another friend how to get Facebook password, at that time, there was a small vulnerability existed. He didn't teach him. He requested many times and promised that he want it to hack someone's account because of there was a small issue.
Same hacking action leads to three different yields with very different ethical aspects associated with them.
First please be very cognizant of the term "hacking"  Some of what you are describing is "cracking" not "hacking"  The techniques may be the same but the intent is different.  I think you are having problems with this because you yourself aren't comfortable with making this distinction.
What about a system which has no security features? Would you feel ethical doing whatever you want simply because security was not implemented?
Take an example of online games where each player competes against others. One system implemented a cheat protection system which could be easily circumvented given enough programming skills. Another system has no cheat protection whatsoever. How would cheating be unethical only in the first system, but not the second one?