Ok Here is something weird. The solutions: at least for my MBP 2,53 is to reset the PRAM and NVRAM. Without any changes to my network, my Airport express, streaming works fine from the IPhone. Therefor it has to be an issue with my Macbook P. After the reset everything works it the way it's supposed to.
Unfortunately, I agree with quack quixote, that this is an almost unanswerable question, but it's not an unsolvable one. When you try the right combination of things it will work better. But there are many variables. First of all, most WiFi 802.11 devices have bugs and incompatibilities of some sort. I've found the Apple devices to be very very good, but nothing, including expensive Cisco APs are perfect. The standard is just too complicated. 
I say it is a hardware issue. I had an old AX (802.11G) that was working fine for several years but eventually started to skip. It was not only music that skipped but the general network stability was bad. I then replaced my main router (Linksys 54GS) and the problems disappeared and the AX skipping got better but not as good (=non existent) as when it was new. With time, the music playback got worse again (while the general network stability was good). No matter what I did, (resetting the AX, changing settings etc) the music skipped skipped skipped!
Of course, if the intermittent skips are not caused by a wireless problem, even that solution may not help.
If you want an absolute solution to a wireless problem, there's only one: replace the wireless connection with a wired one, and disable all wireless devices.  That will guarantee an end to your wireless problems.
As soon as I started storing music on my timecapsule and streaming through itunes to airport express, the stream would stop after a couple songs. When playing music on my hard drive there was no problem, just when streaming from the remote hard drive.   After searching and experimenting I found no solutions. I downloaded a free trial of Airfoil and realized that the stream was uninterrupted whether from the TC or local.   
Are you running iTunes on a Mac or something else? I have seen drop-outs in connections between some WiFi APs or stations and Apple gear. I expect the WiFi to work really well between two Apple devices. 
I finally replaced it with a new (802.11N) AX and now everything is fine (it is combined with a Asus RT-66AC and a Ubiquity Nanostation). You might notice that the AX gets surprisingly hot during playback. After enough hot-cold (expand/contract) cycles the material fatigue sets in and I guess soldering points break, radio transmitter/receiver get slightly out of frequence and other similar degrading of the electronics all help to make the unit unreliable.
There is no "definitive" answer for your issue, because the symptoms you are experiencing can have a wide range of causes and solutions.  The link posted by Systech provides a good overview of tweaks that may help, but nobody can point to a single solution on that page and tell you "do that one" because nobody here has full access to your environment.  The best we can do is speculate, and help point you to things to try.
I know it's not a free solution but its not that expensive, can be used to stream any program and its only $20. 
Things to check -- is your signal sometimes being jammed by nearby cordless phones or microwave ovens, or by other WiFi networks? 