Using OSX in the workplace I ditched the Apple tools pretty quickly. They just lack the features needed.
I think the short answer is no one knows. (Unless you work for Apple.) We don't know when Snow Leopard will be released. We don't know how stable the 10.6.0 will be. We don't know exactly what features it will have or how complete an implementation of ActiveSync it will have.
The thing to keep your ear to the ground about is what version of Samba comes with Snow Leopard. There are current beta builds of Samba that are being used by the Evolution-Exchange project. (Google keyword: "evolution mapi"). This project allows Evolution to talk directly to Exchange servers over MAPI calls, which beats the pants off of the other methods. However, to do so it relies on the Samba 4 code-set which is not in production yet. If Snow Leopard includes Samba 4, then the possibility of apple-supplied applications being able to talk to Exchange 2007 goes up markedly. 
The Entourage team is about to release a version of Entourage 2008 that uses Exchange Web Services instead of WebDAV. (Check mactopia.com and you should be able to find the public preview version). EWS is much more performant than WebDAV or MAPI, and the fact that Apple said that Snow Leopard will support Exchange 2007 (see www.apple.com/macosx/snowleopard/) indicates very strongly that they won't be using MAPI.
Mail/Calender/Addressbook might well be able to talk to Exchange with Snow Leopard, but that doesn't mean you'll get the full functionality. Personally, I find Entourage lacking compared to Outlook, let alone the Apple apps.
Having said that: it's tough to build a fully-featured EWS client. Apple will ship "Exchange support", but what will they support? There are lots of Exchange features (folder access delegation, S/MIME, multiple account support) that Entourage has now that I don't expect Apple to bother with. For that reason, I'd lean towards Entourage, especially given that MS has a "try before you buy" version available for download now and Snow Leopard isn't shipping until some unspecified future date.
If you have to make a decision right now your only sensible option is Entourage. Wait a couple of weeks and check out the keynote at WWDC and you might have more to go on.