If you want something that resides in your right-click menu that will just run when and where you want it, a scanner such as MalwareBytes AntiMalware should work pretty well. You can set it not to run at all when the computer starts, and it can place a right-click option for scanning files, folders, or entire drives as you require.
Full-featured AV suites generally work better as "border protection", detecting and stopping threats before they actually get into your computer, and so need to be running and protecting in real-time to be truly effective. To go to an on-demand "police force" sort of setup, while the big AV products may work, they're just not designed for this method, and so you're better off selecting an on-demand program such as MBAM for use in this role.
I chose Avira free version for exact same purpose. User interface could be better, but it is the best product I've found that does the job. 
(Another alternative for off-line scans is "ClamAV". But it's a terrible AV product IN MY OPINION. So... stick to the online scans.)
Go to Services, stop and set Avira-related services to Manual start. This will disable automatic updates too.
Therefore, go to Scheduled tasks and configure automatic updates (unless you prefer to update manually). If it's not already there, create a task to run "C:\Program Files\Avira\AntiVir Desktop\update.exe" /DM="0" "/NOMESSAGEBOX" at your preferred times. It will run as foreground app, exit when done, but leave an ad window open (free version). Minor annoyance.
And as always, prevention is better than cure - run as a limited user if possible, and practice skeptical computing
As others have said, most antivirus software packages allow you do disable real-time scanning. That being said, most full-featured AV products, even when you disable real-time scanning, are still running in the background. They're just not scanning.
Avira Free is perfect for this. Just don't install the realtime protection, the firewall interface and cloud. I use it this way with a scheduled daily quick system scan.
Right click file/folder to scan when you need to. No services or processes will be left running after scan is finished.
You'd want to go for one of the solutions used when people suspect they have a virus, like Microsoft MSRT and stinger if you want a portable solution.