This is an easy work around from using VBA. Unless you absolutely have to have this in the calendar, it just occurred to me you can use Tasks to do this. If that is OK, keep reading. If it has to be in the calendar, disregard.
Bit of a cheat, but simply set the appointment for the second Tuesday, but give it a four day reminder so that it prompts you on the Friday before the second Tuesday!
I want to create a recurring appointment in Outlook for the Friday of the second Tuesday of each month to schedule server reboots because of Windows updates. Some months the second Friday is not the same week as the second Tuesday. I am not sure if this is even possible to set up within Outlook as the options aren't as advanced as this.
You can find instructions at http://www.msoutlook.info/question/793, then scroll down to "Export, Calculate and Import via Excel"
Every time you get a reminder for this Task and complete it, it will generate a new one for the following month. I already marked the one for January complete and it generated this one for February. Hope that helps.
Outlook will not allow you to set recurring appointments based on other recurring appointments. There are VBA work-arounds, but most of us don't like or aren't comfortable doing coding.
There's a way to do it by exporting your appointment to a CSV file, modifying it there, and then importing it. For example, in this case, you would create the appointment recurring on the second Tuesday of each month. Export you appointments, and modify this recurring item by adding three days to it. Then import the modified CSV file.
OK - Looking at the Appointment Recurrence screen from 2010 Outlook I do not believe exactly what you want is possible.  You can certainly set this up for Patch Tuesday as there is the recurrence feature for that type of setting but... there doesn't seem to be any way that I am aware of or can see to modify that.  The only work around I can think of would be the use of the second or third Friday vs using Tuesday.  As you have clearly already noted though, that would leave you some issues for those months that don't fit the "usual" schema.  Sorry but I just don't think this is doable in Outlook.