Now the real problem: currently too many MTA are poorly configured and do not support STARTTLS, this means that requiring it on your server may cause some of your emails not being delivered or your server won't be able to receive emails from senders using an MTA not supporting STARTTLS.
You can configure your server so that it accepts outgoing e-mail from your users on a different port (587) and only allow TLS there. On the standard port 25, prevent any kind of user login so that someone won't accidentally be using it and sending their password in the clear.
For best compatibility you should allow unencrypted connections for general mail, as some clients do not support STARTTLS.
No they won't. Mail delivery between mail servers is done by looking up the mail server responsible for the recipients domain using a DNS lookup for the MX record. This record contains a hostname and this host will then be contacted at port 25. There is no way to somehow configure a different port, i.e. if there is no server on port 25 the delivery will fail.
So, to conform to the RFC I must allow for the possibility that another agent may try to connect to my email server without using TLS and then send passwords in plain text, is that right?
For the user's mail client (where password is sent) you should require the best possible encryption.
As far as I understand this doesn't break the RFC as it talks about how other servers talk to your server to deliver e-mail to your users. On your user-facing side, you aren't really bound by any RFCs and are free to enforce any policy you wish like enforcing TLS as it's supported on all major clients.
If I break this rule and only allow encrypted email connections (i.e. on ports 454, 993, and 995, but no others), will other email services in general be able to send to my server?
In order to accelerate the move about this, Google in its transparency report displays the percentage of emails being encrypted in transit.
However, too many servers are still not supporting STARTTLS, meaning you may face too many issues by requiring it on port 25. As a consequence, the suggestion I can make you for your configuration is the following: