I've never heard of the OST corruption issue, and have seen no issues with that setup.  Office 2010 is actually set to automatically connect your profile to any other mailboxes you have full access to (when setup with autodiscover).  
Someone whose function is to monitor the incoming tickets (or emails in your case) and assign them appropriately.
As Chris has mentioned, the way you would generally handle that problem is associate your call center email address with some ticket management system that will log and distribute the work flow.  There are plenty of free and paid options available (Track It, Spiceworks, etc).
In environments where there aren't enough tickets to justify having a full time position for this, it's often done as a part of someone's job function (like a Tier 1 desktop tech or an IT manager), or via rotation (today's it's Joe's turn to monitor the queue, in addition to his regular duties).
As already mentioned, the way to go is with a ticketing system of some kind, but if that's unacceptable for some crazy reason, the best solution is going to be having a "ticket clerk."
Regarding the question about many people working, well, to be honest, this would require a good organization skills and/or software development, integration and training. I don't think there would be any hack to solve this straight away using just Exchange and Outlook.
You'd have the "ticket clerk" as the guy who's in that shared inbox assigning emails to the group to take action on, while the rest of the group would stay out of it, to the extent that's feasible.  In your shared mailbox, for example, you could have a process where the ticket clerk would "assign" an email to a technician by forwarding it to the technician, and then moved from the inbox into a folder like "Assigned to Joe," for a very simple implementation.
The best thing would be to migrate into CRM, where emails are imported, so the CRM is handling the call-centre workflow as well acts as email client.
No there is no problem doing this.  I've done this for more than 5 users to the same mailbox before, for years under much older Exchange server versions than the current ones and it worked without issue.