If you stick with the 2 seperate arrays, you would want to put the two heavy disk use VM's on the seperate arrays.  Looks like you have this planned already, one being the Exchange server and the other being the SQL server.
But to step back a moment, I think you need to consider what your targets are and what you hope to achieve by using Hyper-V. We commonly run small VMs to run specialised apps that we don't want contaminating the main Windows install. For example we've run MS CRM and document management systems this way, and it works very well. Using VMs also makes it easy to move the "server" to bigger hardware if the load increases. However we don't normally virtualise the DC or file servers. Usually we'd have at least two servers, one DC/file server and a second to run the VMs. Occasionally, where money is tight, we've put Hyper-V onto a single server running SBS 2008, and actually this works very well as long as the VMs aren't doing too much.
I personally now use OBR10 (One Big RAID10) for all my production data, and then for any archive or backup data where I don't really care about speed or redundancy I used RAID6 (granted yes you can lose 2 drives in RAID6 before it becomes unusable, but you can suffer greater loss with RAID10 if configured correctly).
The other thing to consider is your DC's.  You will want two ideally and want them on seperate arrays as well.  That way if you lose one array completely you don't have to rebuild your AD.  If you don't have any other external machines already covering this part.
Since you didn't say anything about this then what I'd do is have the File server as one DC and the Team Foundation as the other.  Then I'd swap the IIS & Team foundation server arrays are on.  This puts one DC VM on each array which would be safer.  
There's a slight wrinkle because your 8 disk RAID6 is probably bigger then 2TB. Windows can't use all of a >2TB disk unless it's partitioned as GPT, and you can't boot from a GPT disk; it's a Catch 22. So create a small RAID6 array just big enough for the C: partition (64GB?) then create a second >2TB array in the unused space. If your total array size is <2TB ignore this paragraph!
If the PERC can do 8 drives, one thing you can consider is doing 4x RAID 1, this would give you 4 drives and you can spread it out a little more.  But I don't know the specifics about the PERC and if it can do that.
Also last thing, is I would consider using ESXi from VMWare, its also free and a much more mature product.  
Mail data is typically lots of little transactions; you really want to store that on RAID10 rather than RAID6, too.   If you only have 8 disks, the difference in how much storage you get from RAID10 and RAID6 is minimal, too.
To answer your immediate question, I would create a single RAID6 array using all 8 disks. The Perc6/i controller is very good at RAID6 (and 5) and the array will be so fast you can easily run all the VMs on it. When you split the disks into two arrays you reduce the number of disks in each array and that makes the arrays slower. I've confirmed by experiment that on the Perc (actually a Perc5/i) that there's a noticable speed increase going from a 5 disk RAID5 to a 6 disk RAID5, and I'd expect a 8 disk RAID6 to be faster still. I'd use a RAID6 because with 8 disks you increase the probability of a second disk failing while the array is rebuilding after the first failure.
You're a small business, its not worth it for a SAN right now.  Just complicates things for you when internal drives on a good RAID controller will be plenty.  I support this type of customer as well.  If one VM out grows the box and is hogging all the resources you can easily move it to a dedicated machine keeping it as a VM.