I found a Chrome extension (called EverSync) that can sync bookmarks.  You'd have to install it for both Chrome profiles.  Save your bookmarks from one profile, then restore them to your other browser profile.  Seemed to work fine for me.
In order to log in with multiple Google accounts, go to any Google site, such as accounts.google.com. There, you will be able to log in with multiple accounts (usually, there is something like "Add Account" or "Manage Accounts", depending on which Google site you go to).
Once you have logged in with multiple accounts, you will be able to easily switch between your accounts when you go to YouTube, check email, etc. Note that you are still signed in as a single Profile in terms of the Bookmarks, etc. As such, you will always be able to access your bookmarks and such regardless of which account you are viewing on the sites themselves.
Is there any way I can achieve this without exporting-importing my bookmarks each time I add a few more? Ideally, I'd add a bookmark and it would show up in all accounts.
For most (if not all) of Google sites, you can switch profile by clicking on your Profile Picture. As a matter of fact, that is also where you can add new accounts.
In case if you want to merge the bookmarks from two different accounts, open chrome with those two different accounts, open bookmark manager of both profiles, copy the bookmarks folder/file from one profile and paste it into another profile. Way to go!
I use a couple of gmail accounts with Chrome: One for work and one for private use. Unfortunately, all my bookmarks in the bookmarks toolbar are tied to one of the accounts, so when I switch to another account the new window does not show the bookmarks. I really only use the account switching feature to be able to easily log into Gmail and Youtube with my different accounts. I'd like my bookmarks to be common to all.
There isn't a simple way to keep the bookmarks in sync between accounts. However, it is possible to log in with multiple Google Account, albeit not on the Global/Browser/Profile level (which is what you are doing now).
Thank you! I tried what Joey said, and actually went a little further. You can set up a second browsing profile from the settings menu, by choosing manage other people under your account name. Once that opens another window, sign into chrome under the other google account, and then copy and paste the bookmarks you had from that account. I don't know whether you can have them open simultaneously at all time but at least you can access both at once. 