Hard disk encryption is pretty easy these days, so encrypt anything that leaves the premises.  I've seen some exceptionally careless handling of laptops which would be a disaster without full disk encryption.  The performance hit isn't that bad, and the benefit far outweighs it.  If you need blazing performance, VPN/RAS into the appropriate hardware.
Our company requires whole-disk encryption on all company-owned laptops.  Sure, there's an overhead, but for most of our users this isn't an issue -- they're running web browsers and office suites.  My MacBook is encrypted, and it hasn't really impacted things enough that I've noticed, even when running VMs under VirtualBox.  For someone who spends much of their day compiling large trees of code it might be more of an issue.
So what does the business want to do? It's perfectly possible to say that people absolutely must not work on company business from non company computers and make it a "gross misconduct" dismissal offence for people who break that rule. Is that an appropriate response to someone who is the victim of a burglary? Would it go against the grain of your corporate culture? Does the company like it when people work from home in their own time and is therefore prepared to balance the risk of property loss against the perceived gains in productivity? Is the code that was lost used to control nuclear weapons or bank vaults or life saving equipment in hospitals and as such a security breach can't be countenanced under any circumstances? Do you have a legal or regulatory obligation with regards to the security of the code "at risk" because of this loss?
While protecting and securing the data is important, the probability that the person who stole the laptop:
You obviously need a policy framework for this sort of thing: you need to require that all company owned laptops are encrypted, and you need to require that company data cannot be stored on non-company owned equipment.  Your policy needs to be enforced for technical and executive staff, too, even if they complain, otherwise you're just going to run into the same problem again.
Timed wiping might be an option too, if you havn't entered your password in X hours everything is deleted and you have to checkout again. Havn't heard of this before, maybe because it's actually quite stupid as it requires more work from the user that encryption. Maybe would be good in combination with encryption for those worried about performance. Of course you have the power-up problem here too but here no internet is required.
Computers not under your company's control shouldn't be allowed on the network.  Ever.  It's good idea to use something like VMPS to put rogue equipment in a quarantined VLAN.  Likewise, company data has no business outside company equipment.
Those are some of the questions I think you need to be considering, but no-one here can actually answer them for you. 
How about remote wiping software. This would of course only work if the thief is dumb enough to power up the computer to the internet. But there are tons of stories of people who even found their stolen laptops this way so you might be lucky.
Is pretty unlikely. The most likely scenario is that the person who stole the laptop is a regular old thief and not a corporate spy bent on stealing your company souce code in order to build a competing product and get it to market before your company, thereby driving your company out of business.
That being said, it would probably behoove your company to put some policies and mechansims in place to prevent this in the future but I wouldn't let this incident keep you up at night. You've lost the data on the laptop, but presumably it was only a copy and development will continue without interruption.
I don't see this as a technical problem but rather a behavioural one. There is very little you can do from a technology viewpoint to make it impossible for someone to take code home and hack away at it - even if you can prevent them from checking out all the source to a project on a formal basis they can still take snippets home if they are are determined to do so and if one 10 line "snippet" of code (or any data) happens to be the bit that contains your secret sauce / valuable and confidential customer information / location of the holy grail then you're still potentially just as boned by losing those 10 lines as you would be by losing 10 pages.
Corporate owned laptops, should be using encrypted disks, etc, of course but you ask about personal computers.