Can be seen in run: "EVENTVIEWER" (Windows key + keyword event). Then Administrative Events. Watch your movie and when it pops out of focus go check out the events w/regards to the time it occurred. 
A preventive measure might be to close all unnecessary processes before viewing a video full-screen.
3) I even tried using pinning software which did nothing. Here are some more things I used along the way in trying to figure out this problem. A Focus Logger. 
http://www.eventid.net/display-eventid-7036-source-Service%20Control%20Manager-eventno-1529-phase-1.htm
I've also used SystermInternalsSuite, and used the Autoruns.exe. I've also used ProcessExplorer, another sofware. But at the top is where I found my fix -- for me and so I'll share.
I waiting a couple of more days just to be certain, but if this is the cause I will be sending Epson a complaint and that they need to fix the issue with this file for future updates. I'm not sure what it controls, but I can still print wirelessly with no issues and the Epson software hasn't complained. So anyone with this issue and has an Epson printer, find this file and delete it to see if it helps.
This post has been so helpful, I've been having taskbar popup intermittently for a while and could not pin down the issue. Now I've tried everything from looking through event viewer, to clean install, different OS's, but it always came back. Though with Windows Focus Viewer I was able to find what was stealing the focus away from my browser while having a video full screen and the final is called, "e_yatikae.exe" EPSON Status Monitor 3 from SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION. I went into the folder and deleted all file with the same name e_yatikae and low and behold no more taskbar intermittently popping up every 30-60 minutes. 
Nothing was actually losing focus, when this problem was occurring, but this might help someone else.
Or if you can give further description and details of the actual problem will try and tell you how to solve that specific problem.
https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/windows/en-US/017cf738-d29b-4b77-aa3d-756fcdbb3a5f/event-id-7036
I've used many of methods to See where the problem occurs. And these methods have been useful in seeing what was actually going on. But what actually fixed the problem was ultimately just this below at 1) a clean boot; the rest are other methods I used while troubleshooting -- ultimately at 1) was my fix.
But the problem here is its getting flooded this might be because of faulty drivers or faulty updates or faulty software's.