I'm a big fan of monitoring systems.  NAGIOS's standard plugin check_http has a check for SSL certificate expiry, and you can set that go WARNING a certain time before, and CRITICAL another, shorter, time before.  So I guess the first piece of my answer is not to let the certificate vendor, or anyone else, be responsible for notifying you.  Have your own automated system that does it, and ensure it does it when you determine it should be done.
But in addition to the very useful info listed by Kormoc, I'd strongly advise you to use a vendor who will send alerts - and make sure that those alerts to go a mailbox that someone will actually watch. If you set it to a personal address within the company, you risk that person being on vacation or sick or even having left the company. Instead, make sure you have an address that is either a group mailbox or a mailinglist that expands to several people. 
Then add on a comfy margin for holidays, inertia, etc., and that's a good WARNING threshold.  In my case I add two weeks for that.
What should those times be set to?  You know how long it takes you to turn a notification into a valid freshly-minted CSR, how long your your certificate vendors take to turn around CSRs, and how long it takes you to schedule downtime to get the new certificate installed on each server.  Add those three times together, and that's the bare minimum time to generate an automated notification; a good NAGIOS CRITICAL threshold value.
In addition, if the failure of service would be business-critical, add at least an extra week to avoid that happening.
If you've got any kind of monitoring system, you can also set a cron job to run e.g. once a week that reports the number of days to expiry, and start alerting you when the number of days drops below a certain value.
And as a final tip, if you're just using bog-standard SSL certificates, and you're currently paying a lot for them, find a cheaper fulfilment house and buy longer-period certificates instead.  The best way not to miss an SSL certificate renewal is not to have one coming up any time soon.
See the article "Proactively Handling Certificate Expiration With ssl-cert-check" for further informations
Comodo starts alerting at 60 days, http://www.instantssl.com/ssl-certificate-support/server_faq/ssl-certificate-renewals.html