My father has some mild color blindness, and my cousin has a severe red/green blindness (he see both as yellow... something that makes things worse, since when he see a colour it may be yellow, or red, or green...)
I for example made my current game based on colors, but you can still understand the game if you only see the difference between red and blue, and the majority of the population can see the difference between those two colours (they are on the opposite sides of the spectrum and have mostly no overlap in our "sensors", even if the person have only a single colour sensor in his retina, he will see one of these two colours and see the other as yellow or gray, but unless you have some bizarre brain problem, it is impossible to see red as blue, or blue as red)
Some of the issues are not as severe as you might think: for example red and green gems in a matching game may be perfectly fine if one is brighter (usually that would be green).
Another option is to make the colors used by your game configurable in the options menu. That way everyone can figure out a set of colors which works for them.
The most common form of colorblindness you have to deal with is red/green. It effects ~7% of the male population in the US, not sure how well that holds up globally, as it's slightly more prevalent in Caucasians. The only other common form is also green oriented. The others are forms are often found in less than 1% of the population.
I actually had the chance to test Audiosurf on a colourblind user for a class, and found there was only one issue. For those who don't know it, Audiosurf involves matching coloured blocks (red, yellow, green, blue and purple) in most modes, however the "mono" mode reduces them to coloured blocks that change colour and grey blocks. In mono mode the objective is to collect all the coloured blocks and avoid all grey ones, but at some points they looked identical to the colour blind user.
Audiosurf now includes the ability to change block colour settings. Valve games also often have a "colour blind" mode which may be worth looking at. So I'd say with so many colour blind people around, you may be able to find some test subjects of your own and check any gaps with the vischeck plugin linked above.
- How to make figures and presentations that are friendly to Colorblind people - by Masataka Okabe and Kei Ito. 
Basically, 7% of the US population (seemly worldwide is 10% among caucasians and maybe asians... I have no data for black people) is colour blind in varying degrees but of the same type of my cousin (ie: see both red and green as yellow)
A BAAAAD example is Bioshock 2, it has a minigame where the background is yellow, and you have to stop a pointer above either red or green... If you use some filters that simulate colour blindness you will see that almost all types colour blindness result in this minigame breaking, or the green and red become hard to distinguish, or one of the two colours blend in the yellow background, the only people that can play this minigame properly while having colour blindness are those that don't see the blue colour...
My family feared that I would be colour blind too (I DO confuse some colours, mostly blue and black and dark blue with dark green... but it is not colour blindness it seems), so we researched a lot...
This is an interesting topic, I often refer back to this page: http://wearecolorblind.com/articles/quick-tips/ and the resources linked above seem quite good too.
In addition to using additional differentiating features beyond color (such as shape or text), using a different amount of color saturation in different colors will make them look different, even if the colors themselves appear the same.
Unfortunately Red/Green are used pretty commonly to designate stop/go and bad/good culturally, at least in the US. The three best options as have been mentioned are to include shape differences as well as color, use different values/saturations, and most commonly avoid green as an identifier when possible. Hence the reason good guys & bad guys are often designated as Red vs. Blue in games.