Therefore, since the internet is packet-switched, we have the luxury of using tiny amounts of bandwidth to some places, and large amounts of bandwidth to other places, and shifting all that around dynamically (even within a single session) without having to occupy dedicated paths and waste lots of bandwidth!  Isn't it great?
The Internet uses IP (Internet Protocol), which is a packet switching protocol. The Internet uses packet switching, not circuit switching.
the idea of circuit switching it will establish a  private route for all your messages between you and your friend 
2 million routes are established  this is  un logical use for the internet  network  the internet network  main goal is to connect any person from any place with others   in a fair speed of accessing the network
Circuit switching is very wasteful of resources because it dedicates an end-to-end circuit to a call, where packet switching can use a circuit for many, many different calls. Even the telcos are moving away from circuit switching to packet switching for voice calls.
circuit switching ensures  that if a message is sent from point A it will be recieved  in point B  this will come over speed of sending and recieving and resources of the network 
Here's probably one of the chief reasons that a circuit-switched network would be a bad solution for the internet: bandwidth.
so if you using circuit switching this is  inefficient use of your network because you will be consuming bandwidth of network in  establishig the route 
On the phone network, each phone call is exactly the same "width".  You know, the call is dedicated to you whether you are speaking or not.  Silence is wasteful because you're occupying a path and not talking.   And the frequency range that the human ear can hear is 20hz-20khz (but the phone doesn't capture all of that, nor does the phone call transport all of that).  If you wanted to transmit the sound of a dog whistle through the phone, you're out of luck.
Just to make sure we're all on the same page, a circuit-switched network is a network in which a path is dynamically allocated for the dedicated purpose of a single conversation, then released back into the available pool once the conversation is over.  A great example of this would be the telephone network.
In contrast, on the internet, some conversations have very low demand, where others have very high demands.  If you were to run the internet on a circuit-switched network, you would have to ensure that every path met the highest requirements of every conversation (like being able to transmit a dog whistle), or the alternative is to limit the capabilities of the highest power-users (which is why the phone network does NOT transmit dog whistles).  Catering to the highest requirements would be very wasteful.