Even if you are not downloading Windows updates, it is likely the space used by your Antivirus program will increase, both as it records logs of scans and as it downloads more updates.
By default a lot of space is allocated to System Restore.  In general that's a good thing, but this sounds like a system on which you might have to reduce it and make do with restore points for last-change-only.  (I don't generally advocate doing without entirely, but this might be an exception.)
Use something like nLite to create a cut down version of the Windows XP installer and then use that to install onto your "computer".
However, if you want standard XP, take a look at disabling pretty much everything such as System Restore or even using nlite to remove features that you do not need.
All this being said, if I was you, buy a new hard drive, even second hand - or a £5 adapter and a old Compact Flash adapter - someone must have a 2/4GB card laying around - that would be an upgrade!
You will need to start deleting anything you can that is not needed like temp files, also you can do a disk cleanup.
If this is a military network, and/or there are any Microsoft contracts in place, take a look on your Software Assurance / Licencing page for a download called "Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs".
People have used this to cram Windows XP onto netbooks (back in the days when they had tiny solid state drives and ran Linux) although you're naturally going to have to sacrifice some functionality.
As an interim measure: there are several large chunks of drive space which Windows allocates by default which are over-sized.  You can claw back space by recovering them.
This is a cut down version of Windows designed for computers with much older hardware (Can be installed on a 486!)
Also, if you are required to use their AV, fair enough - if not, take a look at Microsoft Security Essentials, it has quite a low footprint.
For example, if you are downloading Windows updates, then I think your 100Mb will disappear very quickly and this could mean that the updates start failing. 
It is not possible to give an answer that covers every single case which is why you have not found a definite answer. For example, if you are not connected to the Internet (so not browsing or downloading anything) and not any updating software, then your free disk space may not decrease very much but this depends on how your software operators. For example updating figures in a few spreadsheets might be ok, but running an busy Accounts package that keeps a history of all sales could means the disk space will go down).
Windows will definitely not be stable with so little drive space; the first time it runs out of memory it'll run out of swap file too and pretty much collapse.  A slipstreamed install of only the core requirementes is called for.
It could be that windows has stored a copy of the pre-Sp3 files (in case you want to uninstall SP3(. If this is a new install, then that option may not be required. I don't think there is an offical method of removing these backup files, but there are various websites/blogs that give instructions if you want to try this. (For example see here)