I bought a new case, and recycled a PSU that hasn't been used in over two years and I believe it was working when I removed it.
The only parts not from my most recent hardware refresh was the case and the PSU (I pulled a currently used hard drive out of my current system to use in theirs, it's too small for me).
Try to reset the BIOS, remove the battery and put back into normal mode (without battery) Then try to start it with the RAM, GFX card, and cycle the RAM sticks (sometimes the MOBO wont beep but the ram can be broke still)
PSU is also a possible cause for the problem but highly unlikely as those will usually shut down in case of failure. Just make sure you have connected all necessery wires to the right places.
For me this sound more like a power supply problem- so try to use another one and see if the problem persist. IF it does then most likely there is a MOBO fault... some damage occurred during storage, temperature differences, static discharge, moisture causing corrosion.. it is difficult to trace.
Moving one ram stick to another slot fixed the issue. No idea why this was required, original configuration had worked for nearly two years.
Any idea where the problem lie? Everything but the PSU was working a few months ago, could I still get the MOBO beeps if the PSU is bad? 
However, the computer isn't POSTing. When I turn it on, I get to output to the screen and no beeps. I removed the hard drives, video card (MOBO has additional integrated), DVD-ROM and case fans (not CPU fan) but only to get the same result. Removing the RAM resulted in the appropriate beeps so I don't think the MOBO is bad.
I rebuilt my computer several months ago and the old non-reused parts went into storage. It's christmas time and my parents have been bugging me to help them buy a new computer, so I figured I'd buy a case and reassemble my old computer and give them to it. It's more than fast enough for them.
In very rare occasions will the MOBO beep without ram but really be broken. As in physically will not power on because something else is broken.
The symptoms do suggest most likely the CPU simply being slightly off it's connectors. You should try to remove it, check for any bent pins or dirt and put it back in and try one more time. If that doesn't do it then it is most likely a broken MOBO.