It also installed the Ask Toolbar without my permission.  I don't know what else it installed (I'm still looking).
Identified as a trojan: http://forum.kaspersky.com/index.php?s=6508a10c18a04edc4d3a34d248eb8967&showtopic=95546
Their products appear to do what they say they will do, and as far as I can tell do them well -- I've tried them so I know.  That's the good news.
So it looked to good to be true so I googled it and found that a few people had had their anti-virus inform them that Fling is a trojan! I have since read that this was a false positive and it's been fixed. Anyway, I'm feeling a little paranoid about it now.
I just downloaded Fling from them (an automatic ftp uploader) having been looking for a good app to do this for a long time. It just seems to good to be true to finally stumble across what looks to be a good piece of software.
I installed their Prism Converter: it hijacked the file association to -ZIP which downloaded their own NCH unzipper.
When I uninstalled their product (the screen capture program), it didn't totally clean up after itself, either.  The NCH Software folder was still in Program Files.  I suspect other remnants remain.
The bad news is when the installation runs it tries to install a load of things on your system that you didn't ask for and didn't want, such as IE toolbars.  It tried to change my IE homepage (without asking!) but Spybot told me about it as it attempted this, so I stopped this.  I didn't catch a few other things, such as hosing up Internet Explorer so that whenever I try to start a new tab, it doesn't come up blank, but it runs to Google Mail!  Which is really odd, actually.  Gmail was set as my home page, and apparently, preventing NCH from changing my home page caused it to mess IE's tab-generating process up.  I am not sure how to fix this.  
Malware. It installs itself everywhere, then prevents you from uninstalling it. Basically this is a trojan. It took me almost an hour of hard work to get rid of it and I am a senior Windows professional. Most of the virus scanners don't react because this actually has some sound editing properties. Anyway, this company should be sued by everyone fooled to install this invasive and abusive piece of software.