Of course if you just want to knock down clones of popular games to make a quick buck, I doubt that anyone would bother with the hassle of legal action against you, since more often then not, if you just copied something and don't put your own spin on the issue, then it probably wont sell well enough to matter to the original.
Finally, there are trademarks. Universal did sue Nintendo because it's apparently easy to confuse Donkey Kong and King Kong. While Universal did lose badly, Nintendo first had to be willing to enter an expensive legal battle. If you don't have the funds, you can't defend against these kinds of legal attacks.
I could make a game called "Crystallized" that was Bejeweled, in every imaginable way, and as long as I didn't copy the art from Bejeweled (either directly, or by drawing new art that just happens to be nigh-identical) I'd be totally fine.
Game mechanics have been copied often enough that, if this weren't the case, I have no doubt we'd have heard about it by now. Game design is pretty much one giant incestuous ball of borrowing, and, honestly, is better for it.
In addition there are patents. Patents for concepts in games don't apply in many countries, but due to the way these courts work, if you do business in the respective country you're in trouble. https://www.google.ch/search?q=car+racing+game+patents It's likely that you could challenge and void many of these patents in court if you have half a million to spare, per patent - or you could just pay the patent holder a fraction of that and be fine.
I think this article puts it best, by presenting 5 copyright cases, including the Tetris and Yeti Town cases:
My personal belief is that if you have to ask the question, then you probably know in your heart that what you are doing is borderline wrong. It may or may not be legal, but to me its besides the point. If you cant be true to an art that you created then why bother.
Yes, but there are so many similar clone games out there that the rules are probably very slack or nonexistent
In conclusion, if you're doing a total and complete rip off, you're in trouble these days, but you weren't 10 years ago.
I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice. These are things I've heard many times over and have no reason to doubt.
Other answers have covered trademarks and copyright pretty well, but do not forget patents. Many game mechanics developed in the early days of gaming are patented. The 2 that I know of are minigames while the main game loads (Ridge Racer), and jump-in multiplayer (Gauntlet). That is why you almost never see these features in any games, even though they are both great ideas. In theory if you want to use these mechanics then you have to pay a royalty to the patent holder, which could be expensive. In practice however, it is very unlikely to be enforced unless you are making a million-dollar type game.
Keep in mind that you can be sued for anything, even if you're not breaking any contracts or laws, and they might win. But I've never heard of that happening with regards to game design.