Ethernet was originally developed by Bob Metcalfe et alia at Xerox PARC to be Network-layer agnostic, because their goal wasn't just TCP/IP access but also for Xerox's own proprietary XNS network protocol stack/suite.
If you want stuff like 1:1 messaging, you'll need another protocol on top of the Ethernet frames to handle all this listening for you.  The Point to Point Protocol (PPP) is often used for this, over Ethernet this is is known as PPPoE.  PPPoE gives you authentication and encryption, both very good ideas on a broadcast network.
Could Ethernet have used IP addresses instead of it's own data-link-layer addresses? Certainly not, if it wanted to be agnostic about what layer-3 protocol it used.
Because Ethernet was designed to not care about what Layer-3 (Network Layer) protocol was running on it, it was relatively easy for those corporate LANs to support mixes of various vendors' equipment, and it was relatively easy for those LANs to add IPv4 support when the Internet took off in the mid to late 90's, and it has been relatively easy for us to add IPv6 support now.
I can accept that Ethernet (LAN) just does not make use of IP addresses to do communication, but uses MAC addresses. I understand that these MAC addresses cannot be used for routing outside of a LAN, as they are not hierarchically defined. I also understand that IP is the best way to do routing over the big Internet. What I am not entirely convinced of, is that MAC addresses are the best way to communicate in a LAN
As I understand from the ISO-OSI model, MAC addresses operate on a different layer than IP addresses. This is clear to me.
I guess Ethernet could have used four-byte addresses like IPv4 instead of six-byte addresses.  It's probably good they didn't as they'd run out of numbers by now I'd bet.
So, without using the Transport layer, which nowadays means the TCP/IP protocol, you would not have the ability to ensure your data reached its destination, or have the ability for any missing pieces to automatically be reset.
But without some form of routing information you can only communicate with nodes on the local network.  As soon as you start using routing information to relay messages (e.g. to the internet) you want some form of routing protocol, such as IP, or IPX.  And you'll probably want transmission control (TCP) as well... 
You have to hope that the receiver is listening, And listen carefully for a reply message (potentially amongst a lot of other messages from other nodes).  You'll be responsible for sorting out all these messages yourself.
DEC (Digital Equipment Corporation) became another early adopter, using it primarily for their DECnet protocol stack/suite.
You can, if you have programs that will work with MAC addresses instead of IP addresses.  Of course you will be stuck on that network and cannot reach others without some hackery.
You really only need the IP layer if you plan to do routing, especially if another network may be using a different Layer 2 technology than Ethernet, such as Token Ring, which was a real possibility when most of this was developed.  Who knows if another Layer 2 technology may become ubiquitous in the future, if so, IP is independent of it.
Yes, you could, but you would not enjoy using it, as the functionality would be very limited, and not user friendly at all.  There is a reason why the transport layer was implemented.
If you are referring to Ethernet as the Network Layer, then no, it can't.  The network layer requires the physical address of the network device.  An IP address is an arbitrary number that is assigned to a MAC address for simplicity's sake.  IP Addresses are a software solution, not a part of the network card - the hardware solution.  That's why IP addresses can be easily changed, while MAC addresses are hard-coded to the card and cannot be changed (notwithstanding MAC-Address spoofing software, which even still doesn't change the address so much as it lies about what the address is)
It's certainly possible for machines on a local network to communicate without a routing layer.  You just embed message in an Ethernet frame and hope for the best.  It's a bit like putting a note on a postcard and hoping the post office does its job.
In the late 80's and early 90's there were lots of competing LAN protocol suites (all completely independent of TCP/IP) running on corporate Ethernet LANs. Besides XNS and DECnet, there was Apple's AppleTalk (EtherTalk), Novell's IPX, Banyan VINES, NetBEUI, DLC/LLC, IBM SNA, OSI/ISO, and others I've forgotten.