These have the bonus of helping the information stick in the mind of the student ("remember that time we programmed Joe so that he walked into a wall?") and, most importantly, having actual substantive content - that is, not wasting student time.
Breaks? I'm in highschool (not an adult) and I'd be kind of offended if someone told me to go "take a break", especially in an elective - I took this course to learn, not to get told that "sitting is the new smoking". You're wasting their time. (Also, don't assume your students spend their whole day sitting - a not insignificant number of them probably work out or do some form of activity during their day. No need to force it on them!)
A break is not a waste of time. Researchers disagree on the amount of time an average human can uphold focused attention for, but all agree it is measured in minutes. I have learnt 4-5 minutes at the university, and I have read some researchers claiming it to be up to 20 minutes. But you can't expect an average human to uphold focused attention for hours at an end. It is possible to renew attention, this is where the teacher comes in by changing the rhythm, the tone, the visualization, the exercise. But from time to time, breaks are needed. (The 8 second attention span you hear about is different, it is the burst attention span or whatever it is called.)
But you can't enforce rest. There will always be students who believe they can work forever without consequences, and should, and there will always be students who are just too excited about the day's content to slow down for every break.
It is not just the attention though, but moving/stretching as well. Most workplaces have recommendations, and though there are slight variations, most revolve around the "work for 60 minutes, get up and move for 15". This is not only beneficiary to the health of the individual, but also (many studies point this out) improves work performance.
I regularly hold company trainings. Adult education. These are full day IT trainings, that means 9 AM to 5 PM. In the contract we offer 90 minute blocks with 15 minute breaks between and a 45 minute lunch break.
Now, that being said - you don't need to rely on breaks to get people up and moving! There's activities for illustrating different sorting algorithms by having people stand in a row and shuffle themselves according to the algorithm; there's activities for "programming" each other, there's activities for just about anything you want to do.
My actual answer is: explain to them why breaks are important, explain to them how getting up, stretching, moving can help them concentrate, but don't try to force them to do so. If sitting is the new smoking, then dealing with it is similar: you can't just forcefully take the cigarette out of their hands. They know their own bodies and what type of break refills them. And they will learn the importance of breaks the hard way.
Our reality is that students can take a break whenever they like; the primary purpose of my official breaks is to ensure students that it is okay to rest; many of us have been raised with a philosophy of overwork, and I don't have a single student who is in danger of failing because of laziness.
I don't understand all the hate this question is getting. I'm guessing the answers depend on the context a lot.