I also agree with keeping multiple copies in different locations if the data is extremely valuable. I have seen backups fail, and the only thing that saved the company was having multiple copies. I have also had a company (as a consultant) burn down, and they were not good about taking a tape off-site weekly, so they lost all their data.
Everybody has been very correct in pointing out that flash drives are very durable if stored correctly. 
I think that with the current technologies the limiting factor will not be the amount of time the data will be able to be stored on the media without decaying, but the availability of readers. It is hard nowadays to read a 5 inch floppy disk, and almost impossible to read the stack of 50+ years old perfectly preserved punch cards left from my grandmothers education in the university.
The reason is that no  matter how good you store your flash drives, they will eventually need to be read, somewhere. Now that they are plugged in, they can be destroyed by a variety of causes. Sudden buildup of static electricity, poor power supply, logic failure, operating system failure, et cetera, et cetera. 
Thus, remember, if you want to make sure you store it properly, make multiple copies, at multiple places, in multiple formats. I would have taken a master-grade CD (e.g. one from Taiyo-Yuden), a SD card, a USB drive, and/or something else, and put it in two different safes if it were so important to me. 
Paper is still the (easily created) format that holds up best over time.  Properly stored paper can be read for thousands of years.
Print a hard copy, get it laminated, put it in the vault. It should still be there and readable in 100 years. Storage media and software codecs could become obsolete in 100 years, but I doubt that copiers or scanners will become obsolete anytime soon.
Any modern digital format should be refreshed frequently (with the value for frequently determined by the media type.)  I would refresh any VERY important data at least annually and keep three copies in separate locations.
http://www.audioholics.com/education/audio-formats-technology/cd-and-dvd-longevity-how-long-will-they-last
As far as a current media, a flash drive, while very stable overall, they are still more subject to failure when compared to a DVD. I would use a DVD burner and put them on DVD. The estimates for DVD life vary greatly from 20 years to 200 years. If you store them in a cool dark location, I would think you would get at least 50 years out of a good quality disk, but again, you will need a reader in the future, and that may be tough to get in 50 years.
I agree with D.Iankov regarding changing the media every 10 years, or as you see that your current media appears to be aging compared to new technology, as well as the availability to be able to use the old technology, you would want to change it then.