A file recover utility did the trick for me in a similar situation. Recuva has very good reviews and actually was able to recover several older versions of a power-point presentation I had inadvertently overwritten. 
i) Open each of the recovered Word files which match the size (plus/minus 5%) of the file in question. Check to see what they contain. Delete them if not what you want.  
You can recovering those deleted temporary files, you can recover the old version, using a file recovery software like Recuva. The last version of the last saved file is usually called somthing like ~WRL0001.tmp (the meta information like date etc. will be still intact). Older versions and last versions from files saved before the last one will also have temp files that can be recoverd, but they won't contain the meta data any more, but they will keep their fileextention. When you recover those files the recovery software will usually assign a number, so it might look like this [000001].docx.
Office (tested with Office 365 V1909) saves files for Word, Excel etc. in a similar way creating various temporary files. Instead of modifying the original file it creates a new file and renames and deletes the old one containing the old version.
Free continuous backup software like DeltaCopy would allow you to pull the previous versions out of the backup destination, and that's a good thing to implement once you have recovered the desired version of your file.   
b) Extract its files to a directory on a drive (an external USB attached drive is recommended) which was NOT used to save the desired Word file.
Windows has written and replaced 3,600+ files so far today in six hours of use on my PC, and probably thousands on yours; it is very disk-intensive. Therefore, please abstain from using your PC for anything until you do these recovery steps.
f) Specify recovery to a destination drive (so it is not overwriting any clusters which might contain your data).
This is a (personally) verified process I've used for years at https://www.freegeek.org/shop/tech-support and elsewhere (Note: I do not speak for Freegeek).
This process instead discusses how to recover a modified (or deleted) file using an Open Source tool, Photorec, available for all three major OS families.
h) When scan completes, open the destination directory.  A file name will have been randomly assigned by Photorec but the extension will match what you're looking for.
IMPORTANT: make sure not to use the drive where the word file is stored until you are finished with recovering your deleted files. Space occupied by deleted files will be overwritten sooner or later when new data is saved on that drive.
When you modify and save (or a Windows app autosaves) a file, the prior version of the file is thrown away.  It's probably still there, for Windows does not normally truly erase a deleted or modified file, instead marking the space the file previously used as reusable. If the file is erased, Windows then breaks the link between the space used by the file to the file name; if the file is modified, Windows changes the link of the file name to point to the new location.