Yes, sudden power failure causes hard disk damage, beside file system damage which include physical damage. 
if power loss happened when the moment of data writing to the hdd that should make a damage to the hdd so you should try a different hdd to see if this is the problem but i'm guessing that ebios error not related with hdd if that error message not about S.M.A.R.T. error...you should use a ups to avoid this kind of power losses or surges ((and it should be quality product it can be very useful when this kind of situations))
A bad form of disk failure is head crash where the elevation and angle of the magnetic head get changed (and may touch or press the disk). And  then the head starts  to scratch the platter. It can also happen if the hard drive get an external mechanical shock or jerk. 
One power failure is less likely to cause such massive damage, but each power failure keeps doing some minor damage, and a loss of integrity of interior mechanisms. 
Power loss shouldn't do any physical damage to the disk, as most modern disks use the inertia of the platters to safely park the head when they suddenly lose power. However, depending on why the power went out (power surge tripping breakers, for instance), it's possible damage was done that way, or if the PSU in the machine reacted badly to losing power.
We've found that in many cases it isn't the power loss that causes the problem, it's the power surge that happens when power comes back that can cause problems. Not all power strips are created equal in this regard. 
Given that the errors are local to certain partitions rather than just random I/O failures as one would expect from circuitry damage (which is the most-likely type of damage from sudden powerloss or hard reboot), it's possible that you could simply be data-level damage, e.g. corrupt partition table, MBS, or filesystem.
Download a HDD diagnostic utility from the HDD vendor or something like HDDScan. Check the S.M.A.R.T. report, perform the S.M.A.R.T. and storage verification test. That should give you a pretty good idea of what is wrong.
This is a problem where prevention is effective than cure. The most basic  prevention is to maintain a backup on a separate storage device. Even on a home computer, a backup should be maintained from first day.  Second prevention is to assemble the hard drive on chassis tightly and firmly with screws.For computers without an internal power  battery,  a good UPS should be used so that proper shutdown could be done if a power cut happens. Instead of hard disks, solid state drives could be used, still a backup should be kept. 