You may want to also disable all extensions for a while - I'd be more suspicious of an extension bug than the main browser, since Chrome is almost certainly better tested than extensions. Some extensions, like ad blockers, modify the markup before Chrome can render them. That could be the culprit.
I too faced the same problem. I realized that the problem started after installing some extension "Smiley Bar for Facebook". Just by ending the background process of the "Smiley Bar Facebook" extension the problem vanished. 
I too experienced this on some different versions of Chrome and while I'm not quite sure where in the renderer this problem comes from, I can offer a workaround. It seems it is somehow related to delayed rendering of several tabs you open at once when you restore last session or otherwise open many windows at once. Activating each of them seems to make problem go away. Just holding down Ctrl+Tab for a few seconds as it sweeps over all tabs should help.
Chrome dev are you listening. The problem is that the page has finished loading but is not displayed. One solution above works "Click on the Chrome icon in the taskbar to minimize, then click the icon a second time to resize". Another trick I have found, is to click on another tab and immediately come back to the tab that was not showing and viola! the page will be there.  
Google Chrome has been getting worse and worse over the last few months. When I open many (but not all) web pages, as soon as the page is done loading, the browser window goes completely blank.
If this is still happening with no extensions enabled, open the developer console (on Windows the shortcut is CTRL-SHIFT-I). Some clues that something problematic has been received may include a red icon with a number beside it in the bottom-right corner (JavaScript error(s)), or an empty or near-empty pane showing the HTML markup in the leftmost tab (I have no full browser accessible - sorry, I can't get the name of the tab).
The Chrome team seem to be quiet about this problem, and it's happening so badly to me that Chrome is pretty much unusuable. Has anyone been able to fix this properly?
Now that I think of it, I think I've seen this behaviour a couple of times in Chrome for Windows. a refresh always fixed it, but it happened so rarely I never investigated. 
Do you have a URL where you can reliably reproduce this problem? If so, please share - it'd be helpful if we could try it on a few other platforms to see if it's an issue (same problem or other weird behaviour) using Chrome for Windows or testing with Chromium.