I've never seen a server with VT/SVM capabilities disabled completely, to the point you can't enable it.
I am pretty sure hardware assisted virtualization does NOT have any overhead when you're just running a native OS.
In the end it comes down to what virtualization path your are planning to take, and what operating systems you see being installed that can be the determining factor in whether to leave it disabled or go ahead and enable it.
I would hazard a guess that not all CPUs available for a given motherboard and BIOS combination support VT extensions. So they ship it as disabled in the BIOS for the sake of compatibility.
The only reason I can think of for having the ability to disable it (I've never thought about this before, actually) is that certain applications/workloads could in fact run worse when HAV is enabled than when ran natively, due to certain overhead in the MMU for instance.
Having worked in Dell server support, all the VT capable servers have the feature disabled in the bios by default, but it is easy to enable if you need it.
When working with VMware the hardware virtualization features added byt the Intel-VT and AMD-V chipsets are usually unnecessary as VMware provides all of the necessary features within itself and it can lead to degraded performance of the virtual server itself.
With Xen virtualization you will need to use these features if you intend to run Windows within the unprivileged guest domains (domU's) and install using full-virtualization rather than para-virtualization. In my experience having to enable these features can show a significant degradation in performance overall even still but it will allow you to install Windows. Other operating systems like Linux, *BSD and OpenSolaris I have had no problems installing without hardware virtualization and see much better improvement when the hardware virtualization features are disabled.
Depending on the virtualization method you are intending to use you may not need to enable hardware virtualization featurs in Intel-VT and AMD-V capable CPUs. When you would need to use these features is when the virtualization method is unable to work when installing unmodified operating systems, usually Microsoft Windows.