Saved me from throwing out the PC, thinking something was physically wrong with it, when it was just dirty and dusty.  Underneath the fan shroud it was really a gunky mess on the motherboard.  This must have been causing some short-circuiting, as dust and dirt/gunk is electrically conductive.
Also, check the timestamps on all of your log files in /var/logs and see if any of the logs are being written to at the time of your lock up.
Not necessarily, syslog has the ability to write log messages asynchronously. Also look at sar output to find out what the hang is. It could be I/O waits, the machine could be network bound, memory bound, or CPU bound. 
The issue was the gnome screensaver causing some kind of issue where the machine would just completely lock up and stop responding to any connection. After disabling the screensaver the lockups stopped.
Problem was RAM failures.  Ran memtest86 and discovered failures.  RMA'ed the DIMMs and got new ones.  Some of which also had memory failures.  RMAed those as well, now everything is stable.  
That's not a lot of information to diagnose by. If the system genuinely hangs - that is, becomes unresponsive on the network and at a local console - and there's nothing in syslog or dmesg to provide a cluse, then I would presume you have encountered a hardware fault, and would begin running diagnostic tools from your hardware vendor. Bad RAM or CPU could certainly cause this type of behaviour.
Occasionally, like today, it hangs.  There's nothing in /var/log/messages that indicates any problem.  (I did notice that /var/log/messages is not in time order.)  
I did a complete cleaning, which included taking out motherboard, disconnecting everything.  Very, very careful cleaning. Taking off the CPU heat sink which was attached to the internal fan meant I had to re-seat the surface of the heat sink to the top of the CPU, using thermal paste, artic silver 5, I purchased at my local radio shack.
You may just need to completely clean your motherboard.  This exact same thing was happening to me; complete freeze; complete hang, with nothing in any logs, no response to mouse or keyboard, just a frozen screen and a hung CPU, completey unresponsive.  Logs showed nothing.