I have been running Ubuntu on my desktop for years with just a few services being disabled, like bluetooth and folder sharing and then use the OS. You can install an antivirus if you want but it's not really needed.
Only install software from the distribution's trusted repos. There are various measures in place that help to maintain the integrity of the packages found said repos.
What it does protect you against is someone physically breaking in to your house and stealing your computer.  It stops them being able to get at your data.  Not that many house-breakers want the data; they just want to sell the computer on for a quick buck so they can go score some more drugs.
Whether it is worth it or not?  Well, it won't protect your data against someone from the internet breaking in - once the computer is booted and the filesystems are mounted (encrypted or not) the computer can read the data - and hence the attacker can read the data.
Finally, as mentioned before, lower your threat exposure - shutdown any services not in use, and any ports that arn't immediately needed.
You're better off individually encrypting your sensitive files so only you can get at them with a key / pass-phrase.  That will prevent them being easily read by an attacker.
It very strongly depends on what you're using it for, and what ports are open. For example, if you have lots of services exposed to the internet, and they are things that are often misused, 
Not using your root account is also common sense. The ubuntu way of not HAVING a root account actually has some merit as well as your common brute force attacks would try to guess usernames AND passwords.
You can get very tricky with iptables. Take a look at the man page and you'll see just how complex this piece of software is. Aside from not connecting to the net as mentioned above, this is probably about as good as you can do.
Hard drive encryption is relatively simple and straight-forward to set up.  Some distros (notably Ubuntu) offer to encrypt your home directory for you at installation time.
You'll be fine with an out of the box linux installation, just disable any services you don't use. If it's a home PC then you have nothing major to worry about.