Also it gives you a chance to figure out which one you like working on more. No sense in going down a path before you know which environment you'll enjoy working in more right?
Your best bet would be to work on both equally, you'll find much more opportunity out there for someone with both windows and linux experience, especially at the junior level (wild assumption let me know if I'm wrong about the level your are looking to get hired at) positions. 
Companies will pay for the skills they need as they need them. The company I work for right now pays more for Linux positions because our area is lacking in skilled Linux/Unix people. It helps pull them in but on the double edged sword, as they gain the resources they can offer less.
With regards to money, as far as I can tell, professional engineers with win or *nix skills are paid equally, provided their professionalism and skill is of equal level.
But for what is it worth I have always made more in Solaris and Linux positions than Windows and other environments.
The real difference tends to be in the separation between the desktop and the server side.  A "windows sysadmin" who spends his day on exchange, iis/.net app servers, security compliant ISA systems, merger-and-acquisition active directory projects, etc, is going to get payed as much if not more than a "linux sysadmin".   At the low end a small-office "windows sysadmin" gets payed maybe a bit less than a hosting-company/MSP ticket-worker level "linux sysadmin".
I would think that mixing the two skills might be advantageous in the beginning when you're just starting your career, but will hold you down in the long run. 
The gap that used to exist in pay was reflective of the gap that used to exist between commercial unixes and windows NT.   Over time as NT has improved and as unix has been commoditized and popularized in linux the compensation gap has narrowed.   
One thing "windows admin" has is that there are in general much more jobs, especially outside of the major hosting and datacenter metro areas in the country (boston, nyc, dfw, sf, la).
I found myself in *nix world, but even there if you dig deeper there are niches. I started on tru64 then migrated to solaris now I'm purely Linux. When out for a job hunt I'm not selling myself as tru64/solaris/linux person. No, it doesn't work like that. I've found that the offerings are tend to be lower for mixed position than just one specialised.
I don't think the disparity between linux and windows sysadmin pay is what it once was now that *nix is a more common skill set. If I had to say something off the top of my head i'd peg it at maybe 5% difference now, more if a company is hurting for *nix admins. 
Pick one and become really good at it, that way you'll maximise your income. As the saying goes "Jack of all trades - master of none". 