One idea could be to somehow use a Captive portal to stop web traffic until the user has the correct DNS server. I don't know how to use a captive portal to check a DNS setting though...
If it's an option for you, only a member of the administrator group can change a network adapter settings.  Assign the DNS address by DHCP and make them a standard user and you should be ok.
The best user experience would be to hijack anysourceip:53 to go to your :53 with a firewall rule to forward requests.
If you block port 53, the end user with a custom dns will not be getting domain name resolution, and could cause a poor user experience.  While if you redirect it, they will be getting online without calling in customer support, or the IT admin.  It will reduce support time, and if that costs money, it will save money.
Is there anyway to force computers to use a specific DNS? Even if a computer has a defined a DNS address that I don't want, all of its DNS traffic from it will be resolved using the specific DNS. I guess I'm trying to say is there a way to emulate a proxy so to speak with out making one.
Within your LAN you could put up a DHCP serving the DNS you want.  All DHCP enabled clients would go with yours.  If there is already a DHCP server out there, just make sure you answer quicker, or do some ARP poisoning/spoofing.
I think this is what I'm going to do, I already have tomato firmware on my linksys router so I'm going to set the DDNS to opendns and then check the box that says intercept DNS port udp 53. I think that should work.
The whole reason why I'm doing this is that I use OpenDNS for web filtering but the only thing that you need to do to bypass that is just type in a different DNS server in Windows.
If you are looking to prevent users on your network from some other dns server you will need to block access at the firewall.  If you do that you will need to provide a dns server that you allow to have outside access.  Any dns server can be used to proxy dns requests.  