Possible problems could be: RAID Disk Failure, ECC Memory Error, Fan Failure, Power Supply Failure, Case detected as open, system is running too hot.  There are many more, but as you can see, there are many many things that could be wrong.  You'll want to make sure the admin knows about it as soon as he becomes available, and may want to notify him immediately.
Low-High beeps are commonly a CPU or other thermal sensor trigger alert (ie, overheating).  I have also seen raid controllers beep low-high on a failed cache battery, or a failed drive condition. 
Could this be caused by a failing cmos battery on the mobo?  I dont know if the status of this type of battery is even monitored or not, but I havent seen this mentioned.  I think they have an expected life of two years.  I have never heard a comptuer emit this exact sound.
Don't expect it to be exactly obvious but the erorr codes will give you a pretty good idea of what's wrong.
It's definitely a failure of some sort.  Can be a variety of things, but definitely worth having the Admin look at ASAP.
Baring that, open the server up while on(not best practice) to locate exactly which part is beeping(I'm 95% sure it's the mobo though).
Then look up error codes for the beeping part on the manufacture's website.  The model number, serial number and make will now become useful.
This could be a multitude of failed things.  Memory, CPU bank, PSU, Hard Driveor FAN. My guess is on the PSU or fan.  The options are these:
Yes, notify the admin - this is their turf.  If you still want to help after that then cool, but CYA.
I/O Port 0x00002000-0x00002FFF  Mobile Intel(R) 45 Express Chipset Series PCI Express Root Port - 2A41
After saying all this, and realizing that IceMage said most of this as well... know that if the server is still working, it probably is just in  a degraded state.  Open a ticket or Email your server support team so it is documented, then personally talk to the Server Admin.  
Also, remoting into the machine will likely not show you the errors, since they are probably hardware based.  You'll be able to see them if it's a dell and you run the dell system utility (windows based), or a server specific management program that lets you view the status of a RAID array, fans, system logs, and the such.