Looking at the web interface for the cable modem, there doesn't seem to be anything special setup on it with regards to routing or NATing IP addresses. Is that because when there is only one computer connected to the modem, all traffic is sent to it by default? Now that I am going to (temporarily) have multiple computers plugged into the cable modem, do I need to specify routing or NAT rules on the modem itself?
Again, the routing table will determine that.  Also, traffic sent out will have the source address for the destination to refer to; the packet coming back will have this as the "return address".
Those ports on the CM are almost certainly just an internal switch, not individual NICs. The CM probably has one internal NIC connected to a switch chip, which is connected to the ports on the back.
I doubt you have to do anything special on the modem side of things to have multiple machines. You should be able to just assign a different IP address to each machine and it will send the packets as appropriate. Unless there's something unusual about the modem it most likely functions just as a switch would.
I am going to speak to Comcast about this next, but I figured I'd ask here first just so I can get a better grasp on how this type of thing generally plays out.
We are in the process of replacing our firewall machine. Currently the firewall box is the only thing connected to the cable modem. However the cable modem has multiple ethernet ports on it, similarly to a router.
The cable modem/router is using ARP to find the IP address on the ethernet network. It's automagic, you don't have to configure anything.
I have assembled a new firewall machine and its time to start testing and configuring it. So that means that I also need it plugged into the cable modem (remember it has multiple ethernet ports on it).
So now with multiple computer plugged into the cable modem, how does the cable modem know where to route the traffic?  If some request on the internet is made to XXX.XXX.XXX.181, which goes to our cable modem, how does the cable modem know which connected computer that traffic is supposed to be sent?