Also, check your task manager to see if a process, csrss.exe, is using high CPU >90%.  There is a documented bug in MS where, if a user account gets corrupted, it will spin.  The fix is kind of a 'non-fix' since it involves permanently deleting content that you may not be able to properly backup!  Following is the link to Microsoft's MSDN site:
Finally, check for which custom code is leaking memory. As Chris mentioned, SPDisposeCheck is a very good way of checking whether memory is being disposed of correctly. You can run it against a particular custom DLL and find the culprit very quickly. Be aware that sometimes it gives false positives but never false negatives.
Every afternoon at the same time? Look at what scheduled jobs you have around that time... perhaps disable all of them tomorrow and see if things improve.  Somehow, you've got to narrow down which components are contributing to the problem.
Once you have confirmed the problem is in one of these processes, verify that the problem is memory leaks within .NET code. The # Gen 2 Collections monitor in particular is a very likely sign that memory is not being deallocated. There's a good summary of other monitors here.
Check app pool memory sizes for anything aberrant, and - in particular - the number of web gardens set.  I'm willing to bet that you have something like 10 or so of the latter; if so reducing the number to 1 or 2 will instantly resolve things.
If so, run the SPDisposeCheck tool to help you to check your assemblies that use the SharePoint API so that memory is handled correctly
This is the user-mode portion of the Win32 subsystem (with Win32.sys being the kernel-mode portion). Csrss is an essential subsystem that must be running at all times. Csrss is responsible for console windows, creating and/or deleting threads, and some parts of the 16-bit virtual MS-DOS environment."
Start by using performance counters to check memory used by the w3wp.exe and owstimer.exe processes. These processes are the only ones that should be related to SharePoint. (There is a list of many counters here but using all of them together probably won't help much.)