In just 3min, my load is already screaming at me! Now i'm not going to let this run for longer time as it's a small router to test the loads easier so it's getting hot :)
And so on. Let's make the same run but with both CPU's under load AND add one extra child trying to take resources. In this scenario i'm trying to use more than my system can handle.
Also note, you can't use these numbers as "CPU Usage" like you know it from windows etc. They are averages and are based on process waiting times and cpu usage.
Well we are using 248% of the system, we know that we can use two CPU's (200%) so the system is overloaded by 48% meaning that 0.48 processes is in average waiting for CPU usage time as the two CPU's are fully busy. But if this had been a 4 CPU(core) system then the numbers would be quite ok as we only used the system 50% again.
I captured uptime every second for about 30 minutes and always reported 1 minute average was lower than 5 minutes and 15 minutes. From my understanding of system load values, this should not be possible. It seems that higher numbers are reported with some added constant.
EDIT: If you want to look at CPU usage overall on the system, you might want to use the command "top". Top also shows load averages.
First of it's not system "load" it's system "load average" - There is a big difference as the numbers are all averages (meaning spanning over multiple records and time)! Also it's very important that you know the number of CPU's on the system as this will effect how to interpret to numbers (note Cores in this day and age).
I hope this all makes sense, also there can be small variations between distributions on how their kernel interpret load averages but not like you think. It's how the kernel looks at what state the process is in. Like cpu_idle, cpu_waiting, io_waiting and so on. So NFS fs can make process wait on io etc. I don't think RedHat does anything special.
I ran the command "stress -c 1" to max out 1 cpu(core) and let it run for 5,10,30 minutes (cpu usage time might have been less hence the slight deviation in the numbers).
So what does the numbers mean ? Giving that it's on a dual cpu(core) system you can take the first number 1,00 and that tells us that the system was used 50% as we know it has two CPU's therefore if the number was 2,00 then we where using the system 100%, the decimal numbers tells you the overload of processes waiting.