As for failed attempts to login via ssh, look into Fail2Ban for blocking IP's of failed logins. You might even disable password authentication and use only RSA keys. 
One of best way to have all in one place (what is recommend when you are alone as an administration and you try to avoid spend too much time setting up something by hand is use any web interface (cpanel/cwp/webmin/ajenti)
Also i recommend use as a server ubuntu, cos they have a really big packages database where all of those packages are officially supported, not like in arch, where all of packages are little unstable.
I don't know of a VPS provider that will configure you a PFSense instance as a VM. PFSense is traditionally installed as a physical box, or a virtual box when you have full control over the hardware. There are some tricks where you can block ip blocks of countries you feel pose a threat with either Iptables, or UFW. Google is your friend there!
For security when it comes to Nginx, vs apache, vs. , most vulnerabilities you will come in contact with will be within the web application. Apps like Wordpress, and Drupal should be hosted by people with experience as to prevent your site from becoming yet another spam bot... Keep both your http server and Web application up-to-date with regular updates. 
When you have any access via seperate port (f.e. query in teamspeak3 its someting like 11011) you can destroy whole server just accessing as query... Just set up what you need and block this port in firewall. You can always open the port in any time when you need to.
Ajenti is one of leading software with big range of futures, also it's free to non-commercial use. I do not know why its installation work only on ubuntu server.
PfSense should be use as an appliance, run in VM or as other device (like RPI what is set up in our f.e. home network). It is verry not recommend to use it in one box with server (any server) cos of verry and verry complicated upgrade/update. pfSense in generall is the best Firewall with open source support! it is one of awarded Open Source programm!