I'm sure there are very few, if any, viruses that attack BeOS, but that doesn't mean that BeOS is the most secure OS ever. There's little point in virus authors writing BeOS viruses since extremely few people run it. That's an extreme example, but it's the same principle for Windows vs. Unix viruses. The more market share Unix / Linux / Mac OS X gains, the more malware you will start to see for those platforms.
Unfortunately there aren't many expert windows sysadmins out there. I've met a handful in twelve years that were capable. I don't mean being able to get a website up and running, I mean someone who is capable of digging deep into problems because they understand how computers work and can dig into areas like crash dump analysis. I'd also say that unix sysadmins are much more likely to have a wider field of knowledge.
Suppose you have a security hole in your system. Which system is more secure? I think the system that allows you to fix/disable the hole earlier is inherently more secure. ASIDE FROM COST, which of the two systems, Windows or Linux, allows you to fix it faster?
With Linux and large budget, you can keep your own C developers. Twenty of them, two thousand, whatever suits you... They can analyze the source code (legally!), and produce the fix as fast as you wish.
The major problem with security is not actually with the platforms themselves, but with the popularity of windows. There are security holes in any system, its impossible to prove that bugs don't exist in anything but the most trivial of software. Windows and Linux both contain security holes that haven't been uncovered yet, however because of Microsofts popularity as a desktop OS, people looking for holes are more focussed on looking for holes in windows, because often there is more for them to gain by hacking hundreds of windows desktops, and unfortunately these hacks usually apply to server OS's as well as desktops. If Linux had become the dominant desktop OS then I think the situation would be reversed.
Aside from that I don't believe that either OS is intrinsically more secure than the other.  The differences are down to the implementation, how it's used, and the other security-related scaffolding that exists around it.  A Linux box with a root password of "password", no firewall, and connected directly to the internet won't be secure, despite it being Linux.
Let's assume you have a very, very large budget. With Microsoft, you can pay them more, and they will try to be faster. But they are only as fast as they wish.
With the most skilled sysadmins, you can make any OS secure, however you cannot (without re-writing the OS yourself!) account for holes in the OS, not have not yet been discovered. WHen they are discovered its more down to the speed of the vendor providing a fix for the problem, than the sysadmins skill at securing the server. Most of the security breaches you hear of today are not due to lax system administration, but to a previously unknown security hole in the OS. Linux is as vulnerable to these as Windows, its just more people are looking for them in Windows.
The "Windows == bigger target" argument is actually double-edged.  Because millions of Windows installations over the world are being actively attacked, it also means that Windows has more fixed security vulnerabilities than Linux does.  Those legions of patches every month?  They're fixes for security vulnerabilities that have been discovered.  And it's not the vulnerabilities that you know that you need to worry about, it's the ones you don't know.
Unix people may scoff, but as long as you're diligent in applying patches, I think it's getting pretty close. Windows seems more prone to attacks simply because it's a bigger target. There are way more Windows machines out there, so that's where the malware authors dedicate their time. Also, Unix users on the whole tend to be more knowledgeable than Windows users, so it's more likely that your average Windows machine on the net is insecure than your average Unix machine.
I would say that with an expert sysadmin/engineer, windows is just as viable and secure as linux. I'm tired of OS flame wars, anyone who involves them self in them simply shows that they don't understand computing. 