I am tempted to try a few of the suggestions posted here with my older Netgear; maybe this weekend; maybe not.  If I do, I'll post here.
I ended up buying a new Netgear WGRWGR614v9 router just to give it a shot; I did this before a few other, excellent suggestions were posted here.  I plugged it in: nothing!  I cloned the MAC address (contrary to what Comcast told me was necessary): it works!  After several days of aggravation, $40 is worth it.  
They can easily change the MAC address stored in their system if you call their customer service line, but either way this is the only way to get it working because it is being limited access by their upline system.
I had a similar problem that occurred when I upgraded to Comcast 50Mbps and had to change to a new DOCSIS 3.0 cable modem. Having my router (a Cisco RVS4000) Clone the MAC address of my primary PC that I used to perform the self-installation fixed the problem.
Is the router successfully pulling an IP from the modem? Is the modem running its own DHCP server? Modems like to reset themselves to factory defaults when things go wrong and you may need to get into its config pages to put them back where you want them. 
Comcast technical support says that they use a MAC address authorization solution in their routers to prevent unauthorized access to the cable (as if spoofing a MAC address wasn't easy, but that's another story). There are two MAC addresses that they store in their central office system, the MAC address of your cable modem and the MAC address of the PC that you connect to it. Since their self-installation system requires that you connect your PC directly to the cable modem (rather than putting in a router first), this is typically the MAC address that they store. If you had your cable modem installed by a Comcast technician they may have done the same thing to make it quick and easy, even though they may have later set up a router/wireless AP for your house (in which case they will likely "clone" the MAC address on their standard Linksys wireless router setup that they install rather than have the CO-stored address changed).