To increase margins in Acrobat Pro, first you have to ... crop it. Go to Tools > Pages > Crop, select random area on the file and double click it. In the Set Page Boxes dialog first you change the page size to a larger, then set all crop margin to zero (the Margin Controls might be shaded after step 1, just change the option to a random one). Don't forget to apply to all before click OK.
You can use ScanTailor for a powerful tool for scanned books. Below is the content of its wiki page Page Layout:
Hard margin - is that between the solid lines. They are set by the user. You can either move over any solid line, be it an inner or outer edge, or set the margins through numerical values.
I encountered this same issue. Super weird that Acrobat doesn't support negative margin numbers in the crop. My workaround was to open the pdf in illustrator and do some artboard magic on a 160-page document. Your mileage may vary.
Optional alignment is precisely defined, add a soft margin, and if you add, then with any of the parts.
You can definitely increase the page size: Go to the Document menu -> Crop Pages and put a larger size in the Change Page Size section.
I needed to shift down the text on a 109-page pdf so it would print to labels. I was able to do it in Header/Footer. Click on Tools > Pages > Header & Footer > Add Header & Footer. After you change the margin you want adjusted, click on Appearance options and select "Shrink document to avoid overwriting the document's text and graphics."
Here's what I ended up doing: I added a thin Header/Footer to every page with Adobe Acrobat Pro 9. There's an option in the Header/Footer dialog that compresses the contents of every page to make space for the header/footer, which is exactly what I wanted.
At this stage you may adjust the margins added to the content box. There are two types of margins - hard and soft. 
Soft margin - is that between the solid and the dotted line. These margins are automatically added to bring the page size to the same size of other pages. If you see a dotted line - this means that somewhere in the project there is a page with that width (usable area of Hard + margin), and (possibly others) with that height. 
Then you can now actually crop the page. Go to Tools >  Print Production > Set Page Boxes. The same dialog will open, but this time you have the old margins to compare before cropping.
This is one big page causing the soft margins in all the other pages, if only for not leveling them off.