Actually, there is one scenario where you may want to move the pagefile to another partition. A while back, I took over management of several older production servers that had a 3-disk RAID 5 container partitioned as C: and D:. Unfortunately, following a worst practice that was in vogue at the time, C: is only 8 GB, while D: is 128 GB.  The space on the C: drive was close to being exhausted, and moving the pagefile was the only was to free up some much-needed space. 
I am making a drive image that will be deployed to several computers, and I'm tweaking it for performance. It is a Windows XP image.
If this does make sense, how should I go about it? Another filesystem? should the partition be on the beginning or end of the HDD?
I have 8 gigs of memory, so set up an 8 gb partition at the beginning of the hd. I remember back when I had IDE hard drives, fat 32 was faster, so I set it for that also... don't know if that still makes a difference or not, these days.
I guess I might lose a ~little~ bit of speed at boot time, but if the swap file is being used by the os it should improve speed generally during use.
Since the beginning parts of the hard drive are faster than the end sections, I just set up a partition at the beginning of my hard drive for the swap file; named it Swap and set it to drive B:...
I'm thinking of this because Linux does it, actually it uses the raw partition as "swap space", which is more performant (has faster I/O) than the default journaled filesystem (I expect FAT16 to be faster than NTFS too).
Just leave it where it is. If you're paging a lot, solve the actual problem by adding more RAM instead of mucking around with arcane disk layouts.
What I typically do is research what the best practice is for that install (2012 is far different than prior, and prior they'd suggest different needs for machines with 32GB+ of memory to NOT do the 1.5x)
This doesn't make much sense. Also, by moving the pagefile off of the boot volume, you lose the ability for the OS to dump crash info in the event of a BSOD. This makes troubleshooting a pain. On top of that, I can't imagine that your performance would increase by any meaningful amount.
PS - with 8 gb of ram you can get away with disabling the pagefile, but I noticed a little bit of speed loss without one; since the pagefile holds all the most recently used files ready to load into ram.
Considering there is only one hard drive, will the machine gain performance if I place the Windows pagefile on a separate partition, possibly FAT16 (instead of NTFS as the OS partition)?
Unrelated side note: I really advise against new deployments XP. It's end-of-general-support and is within two years of ending extended support. Why wouldn't you be deploying Windows 7 at this point?