I generally create "Administrator"-level users as either local accounts or domain accounts (along with restricted groups policy to actually give the user account "rights"), depending on how many computers the user needs the access to. I make sure not to name it in any of the groups used by the day-to-day user account, and not to give it access to their Exchange mailbox. I want the "Administrator" level account to be as useless as possible for anything except installing software / drivers on their PC.
If he wants a play machine, then let him do it on his own PC but a business PC / Laptop / Equipment is for business purposes.
The only time I was even a tiny bit successful on this was a boss who was willing to use run as with alternate credentials if he wanted to install something.  I explained that even the sysadmins logged onto systems with normal accounts most of the time and then created him his very own admin account that he was only to use when he wanted to do something special.  It was actually very effective, and kept his machine from getting totally screwed up in the two years that I was at the company.  This was a relatively savvy CEO who was able to understand the whole run as thing, and I'm sure he had stuff on there I wouldn't have approved, but at least it stopped him from passively screwing stuff up.
Normally I get a question like "Why won't the anti-virus software take care of it?"  We then have the "arms race" talk-- the one about how the malware people are downloading the same updates to anti-malware software that you are and engineering around the new "signatures", etc. 
In addition, explain that if they accidentally damage something, they could be without their computer for a few hours (or days) while you try to fix it. If they do not have administrative privileges, then they will have less ability to break things.
Explain that having administrative privileges makes his computer more vunerable to hackers, who could steal company secrets, destroy data or abuse services, or viruses, which could destroy data or cause him to be part of a botnet, which could open them to computer criminal charges if they partake in a DoS attack or such like.
If he starts to "customise" his (worst case) laptop with "internet downloads" then his Director for Sales will, the Finance Director will, the Assistant Sales Director will, the Sales guy's will, the technicians will, customer services will etc etc.
I top it all of by explaining that I use limited user accounts on all my computers (and have done so for years).
With that in mind, most people have had some kind of "malware" experience today. I discuss with the Customer how malicious software that they run via browser bugs, etc, has all the same rights nad privileges as the user account they're logged-on with (including access to their email and their keystrokes, not to mention resources on servers).
I totally sidestepped the issue and bought the CEO a very expensive very high end (at the time) Mac workstation with a huge studio display. He loved the exclusivity, I loved the fact that there was a little bit less trouble he could get in to. I maintained the ability to ssh in and run top just to keep an eye on things. Luckily he was not a laptop guy.
Then, explain that a) the risk to the BUSINESS INFRASTRUCTURE is increased (fancy finding all your customer and order information on the internet), b) sets a slack security and professionalism culture in the organisation, and c) cost a lot more in support and reduced reliability.
This is all it has taken me to convince users to run with limited-user accounts. In a few occasions I've had to let the user have a malware experience first (which invariably happens), but since my services typically come with a very clear indication of the related expense attached, it usually only happens once.
I only do contract work, so I do whatever my Customers tell me to or, if I really don't like it, I exercise the "bailout clause" in my contract.
This strategy has saved me a lot of headaches and has saved my Customers a substantial amount of money. It takes "people skills" to have the conversations you need to have, and being a contractor certainly helps matters, but it's definitely a surmountable problem.