how to ID video ports: http://support.benq.us/customer/portal/articles/2036687-how-do-i-connect-my-monitor-to-my-computer-
trying every resolution, contrast and brightness options didn't work, so i bought a new vga cable, just to make sure the monitor is defected. and it worked!!! now i have the expected clear image on the monitor.
First off I know I am responding to an old post but people are still finding answers here.  If your PC or docking station has either a display port or HDMI outputs use these instead of VGA.  VGA cabling is a very old standard and modern graphics push its limits.  Display port and HDMI were created to overcome these limitations.  The best advice I can offer is to use any cable other than VGA.
Trying another cable (Like Renan suggested) is an excellent idea, and it sounds like it could either be a cable or a video card issue rather than the monitor.
The self test is a good way to check that.  It can sometimes be difficult to see if the colors are warped, but it's a good test.  Just unplug the monitor from everything, leaving the power cable plugged in and you should get the multicolor self test.  Leave it up for a while to see if it does the same thing.
I have an Acer G195HQL LCD monitor and recently I've been noticing a lot of disturbance on the screen. They appear to be like flickering horizontal white lines. These lines are more apparent on dark backgrounds like grey/black. The curious thing is that, the intensity of these lines increases and decreases with no specific pattern. The disturbance temporarily goes away when I detach and re-attach the VGA cable at the CPU end. My speakers are magnetically shielded, but the problem persists even when I turn them off. I don't know what to do and this is really annoying me. Is it possible that my monitor is failing? Or is there anything I should check?
the problem is nor clearly defined here but i think i had the same with my 23" aoc led monitor (e2343Fs). on dark background, colorful or white areas start to extend with faint lines sometimes so long that a shadow of these areas start to form to the right. (lines extend to the right in my case, not either way)