Also, consider how you want to show tentative building placement.  It's not an uncommon design to show a semi-transparent version of the building overlaid on the terrain as the user drags it around with a mouse.  Letting go of the mouse (or clicking) places the building.
Doing building drawn over terrain allows you to use transparency in your building tiles.  That lets you do things like have buildings that don't occupy 100% of a tile.  That might mean less than a single terrain, but it might mean MORE than a tile too.  For example, you might want a building to cast a shadow, and that shadow extend into an adjacent tile.  You can do this with semi-transparent textures.
The important thing here is to know the important features you will have to deal with. But only the important ones. Make your choice on those features... then, when specifics will come, you will have to find a way to adapt your initial choice (and everything is possible, don't worry). 
Assuming your buildings don't always occupy an entire tile, building over terrain is better. If the building occupies 100% of a tile and always 100% of a tile, then the building is just yet another terrain tile so that's a very simple problem.
Overall, the complexity of rendering terrain then tile on top is trivial compared to having to maintain a complex data/logic structure.
Depending on your game needs, you might even draw your buildings with multiple layers.  Consider if you wanted to show inside of a building.  You could have a graphic of the building without a roof, and then a roof graphic you draw on top of that.  If you want to look inside the building, remove (or draw semi-transparent) the roof graphic.  This is useful if you want the player to walk inside of a building.
But the second method you suggest is pretty fine too. In fact it will depend of your needs and, except for specific features, both will allow you to do the same for different cost.
There is no "best overall". This is where the prohibition about premature optimization comes from; neither method is likely going to impact your performance in any measurable way.
I use it for my 2D games since the day I had to make a building transparent... it avoids the massive use of conditions.
Personally, I wouldn't make buildings tiles at all; they should be sprites. Technically, they are a modified form of unit. This allows them to act like units in meaningful ways. You can give them attacks for defensive buildings. They can die. They have a collision area. And most importantly, you can make the buildings move if you so desire (see Terran in StarCraft).