Enterprise edition is very very costly, which is the version you'd be using in a large scale environment. This is the reason we've not used it.
Splunk does make searching through logs much simpler and easier to do. Having saved searches for common problems can be invaluable in identifying problems. I have 2 Splunk servers in different locations, they are both using the free edition as the pricing was out of range and the daily indexed amount is not enough to require purchasing more.
It's only free up to 500MB/day of log processing. I tested it and even if you stay under 500MB/day, I found that many of the more "advanced" features require a real license. It also requires a lot of hardware resources to work adequately.
Nagios on the other hand makes for a great active monitoring platform. I have a 5 server distributed Nagios platform monitoring multiple geographical locations. It is very different than Splunk which monitors logfiles, Nagios can have service check plugins written to monitor just about anything actively and allow you be notified of problems so you can resolve them.
I have tested Splunk and found it to be very useful for ADHOC searches.  However,  I have used LogLogic now for several years as an MSSP because it is an appliance solution that is tuned to handle as many as 75,000 MPS, it supports a distributed architecture,  provides built in MD5 Checksum File Integrity (for forensics) and has many index reports, regex and boolean search filters prebuilt for most log sources.
I know of a company using it on a very large scale, but it cost a very large amount of money too (the low end licenses are many thousands of dollars).
I find the two together gives a much better picture and does help in maintaining a network. Especially if it is a team versus an individual effort. Everyone involved is able to see the same picture.
It does different things than Nagios as well. Splunk seems better for tracking trends or looking for peculiarities in long term data and Nagios is better for being able to react immediately.