I would try just getting a new fan.  It could be that it was always racing at high CPU load, but you just started noticing (hearing) it now because the bearings are starting to go bad.
Update the BIOS on your motherboard if possible, it may simply be that there's an error in the code for controlling the fan depending on temperature.
If it is your graphics card fan try using an air duster (when it's cool) to remove the dust but I don't think you can replace the fan.  I've had graphics cards before where the fan would squeal at times and just tinkering with it and the angle of the graphics card would make all the difference.
The fans on graphics cards can also be very noisy, they are traditionally small, cheap and naff. I've had more noisy graphics cards than I've had CPU fans.
Not a suggestion but when I have a noisy fan I find something to gently press against the centre of the fan to slow it down which helps to find out which can is making the noise – be careful as it hurts (trust me on this) if that something is your finger and you miss the centre of the fan!!!
It's very possible theirs dust/damage to that fan, it's also possible that a recent Windows update caused the driver to be changed and the way it controls the fan may have changed with it being on more or something which might account for the recent change you are experiencing. A windows update for my nvidea Gforce 9 caused movies to play stuttery and place more load on the graphics card – it was noticeable that the fan was on more often (I updated to the latest driver which fixed that).
However if it's your CPU theirs a good chance you could buy another 40/60/80mm fan and replace the old one as they are fairly standard or if you are feeling brave (and know what your doing) replace the whole heat sink + fan.
The graphics card driver is usually responsible for managing the fan speed, when the graphics card is idling it will be slow, but when you start watching a video or stress the graphics the graphics card gets hot and it will increase the speed which sounds much like what you are noticing.