If some of your local computers are Macs, I recommend this tutorial on how to get Time Machine working with a linux server. Time Machine is a great way to backup, and by using a linux server you can achieve your other goals, too, if you spend enough time on it.
I also have my file server set up to be a Time Machine backup system for the Macbook I work on. I manage all the configurations with Chef, so I can rebuild the machine from scratch easily.
What you should also keep in mind is power consumption. A server that only backs up your computers and does some file-serving won't cost too much power. One that is computing statistical thingamajiggs 24/7 will cost some more, and depending on where you live this may add up to quite a lot of money.
One strength in using Linux is that it suits a homogenous environment well. I have two Windows systems and a Mac system on my network connected to the file server. It can also be a single-sign on server via LDAP/Kerberos/Samba, yes even to Windows systems.
Like you, backing up the family workstations and serving files is my main priority.  If the server hardware dies, that's ok -- I can handle a little downtime while I scrounge up replacement hardware, and the replacement hardware can be nearly anything off-the-shelf.
As far as software goes, I highly recommend Linux.  If you're new to Linux, consider Ubuntu or Xubuntu, especially the server form.  (Use Xubuntu if you end up with the desktop version; GNOME is a resource hog).  On the other hand, if you're very comfortable with Linux, consider a very light Debian install instead -- a typical home server doesn't need the heavyweight desktop GUI stuff, and your usage would benefit from having as little of it as possible.
That said I'd go for something like an Atom - it'll work perfectly for your higher prio items, and may even do some calculations. It will be slower, but it won't cost you as much in the long run.
For hardware, I suggest 2-4G of memory, and separate hard drives for the shared data. Use RAID-1 mirroring, or RAID-5, depending on how much your budget is for hard drives. I suggest hardware RAID as it is transparent to the OS. Since Linux is free vs the cost of a Windows license, you can add another hard drive :-).
My home server is limited by the CPU and RAM, but for what it's doing the only practical limitations are network and drive (really bus speed).  Graphics/RAM/CPU aren't really a factor for me, but they'll be factors for you if you optimize your hardware for simulations and computational jobs.  If this is a headless server, you could even take advantage of a good GPU for your computations.
Freenas is easy to setup, only needs like under 256 megs for the OS, runs a slimmed down FreeBSD with lighthttpd as a webserver. and the install is quick and painless. Can run on ancient machines, like rub 500mhz and only really needs like 128 ram. 
To that end, I don't use any RAID or LVM or DynamicDisk configurations that would complicate moving a disk from one machine to the other.  Data is stored on a 1TB drive in a standard ext3 partition, and a second 1TB drive maintains a mirror of the data via rsync.  Really important stuff gets backed up to data DVD, and I keep a smaller drive (320GB) as an offline backup of the major stuff.