Personally I don't see the need to understand X any more than I feel the need to understand what my graphics card is doing. I've written bits of code using the X libs and I was happy enough just understanding that small part of the windowing system. For what it's worth KDE/GNOME are pretty far from heavy on modern hardware too but if you find them too much then try XFCE for fonts.
X bothers the heck out me any time I run into an issue with it. Especially with Ubuntu 9.04 upgrade since I've got an Intel on-board video chip...
I tried to use the Xorg Wiki to improve my knowledge but found it hard to navigate, aimed at developers rather than users, and felt it assumed a higher amount of understanding then I have.
Good old Wikipedia might well help. Outside of that I'd just read through as many manpages as possible for all the configuration files and programs. I've found Xs documentation is best in its manpages.
I'm an experienced Linux user, I've run it as my primary OS for about 6 years and feel confident about configuring most aspects of the OS.
So if you've made it this far :) My question is are there any good advanced user guides on X? Preferably explaining the architecture, configuration files, font settings, etc. 
I can nearly always do what I want with X, I can fumble my way around xorg.conf files and get the correct drivers and resolutions. But I never feel like I understand it, I'm constantly confused by the various terminology and versions (xorg, X11, X, DRI, ...) and unless I use a heavy desktop manager like Gnome/KDE I'm always having trouble with font types and sizes. 
O'Reilly books used to be the canonical source of X information, but their original X series hasn't been updated since X11R5 in the early 90's.   The one recent X book they've published is fairly good and covers X11R7/Xorg:  X Power Tools
But what I've found to be fairly helpful for research outside of this site is the Xorg.conf manual pages. Pretty extensive, so make sure you take the afternoon off before diving in.