My goals are (of course) to minimize cost and downtime. I'd love to use my double take backup server as a standby for multiple machines (it's got the space), but I don't know if it's possible. The maximum downtime I can afford is less then a day (my servers are on hardware support contracts, but hardware (drives, raid controllers, motherboards etc) still takes time to ship), so I'm not looking for immediate fail over, just the ability to smoothly transition to a backup machine in an emergency.
I'm tasked with providing fail over of our Exchange 2003 Server. Currently we're using Microsoft backup to backup the mail store nightly over the network to another machine. We currently use double take to mirror a database server and it seems like a reasonable solution for the exchange server but it is quite expensive and I'd need to dedicate a standby server for it. I've heard double take can sync to a VM, but I'm not on support with them anymore and I can't find much info on the subject.
I've used CA XOSoft Replication and HA for this exact scenario.  From my experience it performs pretty well. It'll handle both replication of specified files, and HA migration of either an IP address or modifying a DNS name, and then starting/stopping services on the appropriate nodes.
If you are planing for the hardware failure, the simplest solution is virtualizing your Exchange server.
It's somewhat cheaper than Doubletake, and last I looked it was cheaper to license for running in a VM than on physical hardware, which lends itself well to a DR VM situation.
You need to plan this rather than shoot from the hip, but this is a case where virtualisation can work as a kind of "poor man's clustering" from the point of view of protection against hardware issues. 
If further more you also need to be prepared for system self, you then just make a good backup or snapshot of the VM.
Assuming you back up the virtual hard disks themselves rather than the files inside them, which takes some thought but is perfectly "do-able", you can take these to any server running your virtual server software (whether VMWare, Microsoft, Xen or whatever) and just create a new virtual server on that machine using the "current" virtual hard disks and you're away - you don't need all the fancy stuff like vmotion and its equivalents.