It will log every sudo use on the servers and also track any changes to files, installation of packages, suspicious processes, etc.
Yes, this is going to be inconvenient and annoying, but if you're paranoid enough to want to monitor everyone's actions to this degree, I'm guessing you're in an environment which is inconvenient and annoying enough in other ways that this won't seem like a big problem.
The "best" option I can think of is to mandate the use of pervasive configuration automation and management, and manage your manifests using a revision control system and deploy updates through that.  Then prevent actual root logins to the servers.  (Emergency "oh noes I broke something" access can be provided by a not-distributed-and-changed-after-each-use password or SSH key, and everyone gets to watch the sysadmin who screwed up to make sure they don't change anything).
For one, what type of root user access are you looking to monitor for? Stupid admin mistakes or malicious insider? The former -- you'll want a good configuration management solution, as has already been suggested. The latter -- if they know what they're doing, you can only hope to catch enough to indicate something happened worth investigating. You just want to know that some form of unauthorized activity started, and be alerted to that fact. If they're smart, they'll disable most of the logging you build in (by changing the server state or by bringing in their own tools) but hopefully you can catch the beginnings of the incident.
They've got root.  The best you can hope for is to at least see when they decided to break out of your little monitoring utopia, but beyond that what they did is anyone's guess.
That being said, I suggest a couple of tools you can use. First, start with a good sudo policy (which has been suggested already). Second, check out sudoshell if you have need to give those admins root shell access. Third, probably your best bet (though most intensive), look into linux kernel auditing.
Do you know any other similar tools that don't involve patching the kernel or other system components?