But, in general, the caching stuff mentioned in other answers is going to be a bigger contributor to overall performance.
One other part to the equation is how the memory sticks are configured.  Specifically, modernish motherboards support dual-channel memory which allows you to double the bandwidth between your motherboard and memory; if you had paired memory and you took out 1 of each pair, you've lost this and so your memory access when doing a lot of memory transfers will be diminished which should result in operations taking longer.  (Contrariwise, if you happened to have 8 Gig's of faster memory paired with 8 Gigs of slower memory and were only using 8 Gigs, taking out the 8 gigs of slower and repairing the faster should allow you to run faster since you still get dual channel but not it doesn't need to slow down to the slowest memory)
Yes, because the operating system can use the extra RAM as disk cache, which speeds up access to data on disk.
Memory fragmentation is another reason to have extra memory.  If you have 8GB of RAM, and you tend to keeo it 80% utilized, particularly in modern use cases (with lots of memory swapping, such as from opening and closing browser tabs) you will eventually get significant fragmentation.  
Computers have their physical maximum speed(this includes overclocking too) and nothing can make them faster than that.
If you have a quad channel RAM architecture you will see a performace hit even if your ram is 4GB modules.
The reason is that RAM buses uses multi-channel architecture, meaning that the computer can transfer data between multiple RAM modules simultaneously.
The software side of it is covered in other answers and boils down to the OS chosing to use RAM rather than disk.
Adding the extra 8GB of RAM makes it more likely that the OS will find contiguous spaces of memory available, meaning less frequent reboots are necessary to avoid performance degradation.
Probably you computer is dual channel.  In which case you can remove 2 out of 4 4GB RAM modules with no hardware mandated performance impact.  However removing 1 out of 2 8GB RAM modules will impact performace.