Fast Internet connections (either over Wi-Fi or cellular connections) are widely available today and download speeds for most sites aren't that important. Here's a screenshot from Chrome's profiler showing load time breakdown for SuperUser on my current hardware and connection:
So hardware is important if you're going to use that device for browsing WWW. There is no mobile CPU that will be definitely "fast enough". The higher the frequency is, the better it will perform. Number of cores also matters. Other factors may limit the CPU, like amount of RAM, its speed, storage memory's speed, operating system version and modifications applied by manufacturer.
Internet's speed is the rate at which you can transfer data over the Internet. As Jonas Wielicki wrote in his answer, this should not be affected by CPU speed, at least not in a noticeable way.
User experience will be affected, though, because when browsing World Wide Web (which are not the same as the Internet - the former means websites, the latter is a global network used to transmit those, but also to send any other data - file transfers, Skype calls etc.) actual display times are more important than download speed.
It will definitely affect the download and upload speed as the processor will be required to crunch all that data and process it to be shown to u accordingly using various softwares like Java etc. even the latency affects your PC performance try uploading and downloading while using a data crunching software. And u will get different speeds using different devices at the same location. So even a minor change in the configuration will be reflected. Try testing it on two different devices at the same time and u will see a the difference
As you can see, loading takes only 67 milliseconds, while rendering, painting, running scripts and mysterious other tasks add up to one second. Downloading makes only a fraction of entire load time, as clearly visible on the pie chart. Other steps of displaying a website heavily depend on hardware, so CPU will matter when browsing.