1) Is it possible without special equipment to test the cables and sockets? I have various multimeters and a pocket LCD scope.
1A) Take a computer/laptop with a known working gigbit connection and connect a patch cord directly between it and your computer and check the connection speed, it should be 1000.
TBH, if after all this things look fine, my next step is to assess the difficulty in replacing the cable... If I can do it in less than an hour or two, I just do it. If it is a wiring "mess" and difficult to replace, I may go back to the shop and get the Fluke meter to see if I missed something obvious. 
My desktop computer is in my office in a 4 years old extension to the house where the electricians mounted an ethernet socket as well as in the utility room where router is placed. The cable running somewhere under the floor or in the walls (I don't know exactly) is a CAT6 of around 12 m.
1) Take the computer (or any computer) to the router and connect it directly to it, do you get gigabit?
That being said, I have an HP Probook 650 laptop with Linux Mint and Windows 7 Pro on it, there are some switches out there that Mint will never establish a link to and Windows works fine, and I can't explain that, we have a couple Intellinet Gigabit switches in our test bench for testing devices and for some reason when I boot into Mint it will not connect to the switch and get an IP, but it works fine in Windows but if I connect to one of our infrastructure HP Procurve switches it works fine. 
I've got a new fiber based internet connection and new gigabit router (ZyXEL Wireless VDSL2 Gateway) whereas my old router was only 100Mb/s.
3) Check patch cords are at least CAT-5e (CAT-6 is not necessary for Gigabit), verify they have all 8 conductors since it is (was) common especially for inexpensive switch/router manufacturers to include a 4-conductor patch cord. Patch cords with only pins 1, 2, 3, and 6 will only support 100mbps.
My thought is that there is something wrong with the cable they used or the sockets. When they made the extension I didn't have any gigabit equipment so I never thought of testing the speed.
If you get to this point and everything looks fine, considering the tools you have available, I would do a simple continuity test, make sure each pin has continuity with each conductor having low resistance (14 ohms/100m is typical).
There are very specific tools to test cabling, they range from simple continuity testers for under $20 to highly advanced testing tools that costs thousands, even tens of thousands. 
With the new router I expected the network adapter to switch to gigabit mode, but it is still running 100Mb/s. The output from ethtool is shown below. If I instead pull a 15 years old and quite bad looking CAT5 cable of similar length over the floor, I get the full 1000Mb/s speed.
3) Check the jack terminations, this is common fault area, especially when done by people who are not properly trained or informed. Structured Wiring How To has a good page on general information on cable termination. This video from Ideal Tools shows how "professionals" do the job. 