I use Sony Audio Studio Sound Forge 10 Program. Available for purchase on Sony Website. You can increase bitrate by transposing original song back onto original song, by drag and click. You Tube shows how to use the Audio Studio. After You can hear instruments barely audible otherwise. I-tunes shows bitrate in Music Library. I have songs with 1411 bitrate. Cannot lower bitrate only raise this way.
For instance if you use the ffmpeg command line tool, you can give it the argument -acodec copy to instruct it to just copy audio data from one container to another without decoding and re-encoding it.
That would be the way to go if, for instance, you're just doing something with the video, like burning in hard subtitles or changing resolution or whatever.
Because of that, HE-AAC allows you to go as low as 32 kbps for music and 16 kbps for speech, while maintaining an acceptable listening experience. The European Broadcast Union has released a review of the different codecs: http://tech.ebu.ch/docs/tech/tech3324.pdf
It doesn't make sense to re-encode audio to a higher bitrate, but the bitrate might have to be somewhat higher if you want to reduce a further degradation in quality.
If you subsequently increase the bitrate, you are just making the "box" bigger, but the "content" is always the same.
Overall, I would probably pick AAC, because it is widely supported, supports a wide range of bitrates and usually beats competitors at any bitrate. Furthermore, AAC has a low bitrate mode called HE-AAC which employs some sophisticated algorithms to reproduce high frequencies and stereo in a very bandwidth-preserving way.
There are some excellent technical descriptions of why this is a bad idea in this thread; to offer a different perspective, imagine that every time you make a lossy-compressed audio file (MP3, OGG, AAC), it's like dubbing a cassette tape.  Even if you buy the most robust, highest-quality tape you can buy, every time you dub it, all that does is minimize the damage - it's still going to get a little more distorted.  When it gets copied, you're always losing a little bit of quality you can never get back.  It will never, ever, get "better".
Think about it this way: when it was converted from the original media (let's say a CD) it was compressed to fit the "content" in a smaller "box", and by doing so an amount of data has been lost (you may want to read about lossy and lossless formats).
If compatibility is not a concern for you, consider looking into Opus. It's a new open format that supposedly performs very well. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opus_(audio_format)