As long as you take proper precautions handling the components, and do enough research to make sure everything's compatible, it's pretty safe.
The last system I properly built from scratch as my main PC was quite expensive - it had SCSI disks and a fairly upmarket motherboard.  More recently (when I moved to the UK in 2004) I recycled some components into a pair of small-footprint machines with micro-ATX motherboards.  I put some effort into these to keep the interior tidy - cable ties and sticky-backed plastic hooks, quiet molex fans and some other niceties.  They did me quite nicely for about 18 months after I got here.
You are going to be with your hands on small, fragile, expensive parts.  You simply can't be interrupted and count on not dropping something, or putting a charge on your body to 'zap' your components with. I'm serious. Murphy's Law states that the time your wife will scream "aaaghh, cockroach!... HEEELLLP" will be the time that you are attaching a CPU to your motherboard with heat grease everywhere.  
Since then I have just bought secondhand PCs - mainly two socket Xeon or Opteron workstations used for data warehouse development (new ones are expensive but secondhand ones are much cheaper).  While I didn't assemble these from scratch I did do memory and CPU upgrades (single-dual core CPUs and suchlike) and fitted third party RAID controllers and arrays of SCSI disks.
Given how cheap a secondhand PC is (you can get ex-lease machines for less than £100 off ebay) there's no real point in building a system unless you have some specific requirements.  It can be worth doing for the experience if you haven't done it before but don't expect to save much if any money doing it.
You'll need this space to arrange your tools, screws, stand-offs, etc. and clearly see the location of each pin on the header blocks.  Plus, have you ever tried to put a jumper on in a dim room? Don't even try it.  
For my most recent system, I started with the Ars System Guide (the Budget Box) and modified from there. It gives you a good, consistent set of parts to think about, and then you can decide which parts you actually want to use (Do I want more or less memory? CPU? Cores? Etc).
It's not very dangerous as such.  Get an anti-static strap and work grounded and you should have no real reason to break anything.  There is little if any money to be saved by doing this, however.  The benefits come from being able to hand-pick components that might be more up-market than a mass market vendor would use by choice. 
Building a computer isn't hard, but it can be infuriating sometimes. No matter how careful you are about ESD, you'll often get components that are broken on arrival. 
The biggest problem in building a new system is figuring out what parts to buy. Actual assembly isn't that big of a deal, as long as you are smart about static precautions (touch the PSU, keep everything bagged until the last second, etc, etc). The only physically 'difficult' bit is the CPU heat sink, and that's not so much hard as it is scary (I have to screw this big monstrosity to that little CPU board????).  