Well if you cant fix it then you could (assuming your providers have a web based portal of sorts) use a bit of scripting wrapped around curl and grep and plug that into your monitoring system.
Sorry, the short version is: you don't need a technical solution, you need a management solution, and it should probably start with all the IT bills getting routed to you to check first.
If you can reach the URL for checking the expiration dates, you can usually script something to check them.  For Zenoss we've the Domain/SSL Certificate Expiration Monitor (http://community.zenoss.org/docs/DOC-4551) and I've seen people script checks for warranty expiration for Dell, IBM and Apple hardware.  Might be a good starter to look at how you'd integrate it with your usual network monitoring.
Also, in this day of online payment, I often end up paying for things with my own credit card and getting reimbursed, and a pretty big percentage of those are for critical items: name registry, last-minute software orders, etc.
How big is your company?  On the one hand, if you're big enough to have an accounting department, they're supposed to be professional and to make payments that are properly dealt with (Purchase Order, etc.)  On the other hand, if you're small, you should keep an eye on your own "accounting" to be sure that important payments aren't missed.
At our med-small company (~120 people), we have to rely on the accounting department to pay for some things, but as long as you follow procedures and let them know about deadlines, they do their part.  One thing that seems to be different for me than for you is that all IT-related bills come to me for approval as soon as they come in.  So I see the phone bill, the cell phone bills, Internet connection invoice, etc., and if there's a problem (e.g. previous payment not made, invoice showed up late and there's not enough time for accounting to cut a cheque), I know about it and can facilitate payment.
If the bookkeeper can't do their job, I don't see how you can fix it from his/her end. If they can't pay a goddam monthly bill that they have in their possession, how is software going to fix the problem? 