I wholeheartedly agree with your post. Unfortunately, I don't think there's much that can be done without support from management and processes in place that enforce using scripts. Given a choice, people will always go with what's familiar and what's easy. At times, this may seem like a negative point, but there are times when simplicity and familiarity is a plus.
As far as drawing someone in, Try using AD/LDAP scripting to lure them in.  (I think that it's a bit more accessible than dealing with WMI.)  Assign a progression of tasks, say "give me the usernames and email addresses of the people in group XYZ".
On the one hand, the Windows system is implicitly meant to be simple/easy while Unix/Linux systems are much more difficult and less forgiving. So who can blame the admins for taking the path of least resistance? While you, or I or numerous other people may recognize the power of scripting, people will eventually learn one way or another. Typically, admins who holdout on scripting learn the hard way. I like to work smarter, others may just like to work.
I wrote this bit of code to find all users who weren't members of any of the specified groups: https://github.com/gwaldo/LDAP-Inverse-Group-Membership-Report
Don't forget that the documentation should be in an MS Word document so as to complicate reading it from the server.
Manager: Sure, after you have finished the documentation I just asked for, document your script as well, with a flow chart.
Somebody with authority can mandate scripting, by requiring that there be scripts in place to handle most things.  How well this will work depends on several things; if just stated like that the scripts are likely to remain woefully inadequate and obsolete, while the admins work as normal.  
There's also the question of exactly how this is affecting you.  Does it just bother you, or would your life be better if your fellow admins scripted things?
Presumably, you script because it's more efficient.  In that case, you can either show everybody else up, or point out to management that there's more efficient ways to administer the systems and wait for them to take advantage of that in a cost-cutting measure.
Manager: Go spend countless hours creating documentation, that a first grader can understand, that will be stale by the end of the week, for your co-workers to clicketty-click through Task-X.
I came up as a SysAd in the Marine Corps about 10 years ago, where there is a wide gap between being an Admin and being a Coder.  Being a Coder usually means that you get stuck dealing with the CO's pet project website (getting little of your actual job done...).
As far as resources, check out the Microsoft Scripting Guys (who have excellent articles and tutorials) and Scriptomatic2, which I love for digging into WMI.
I used to think you could motivate people, but the reality is unless you're in charge of them the probability of successful "motivation" is extremely low. My attitude these days is: those who want to learn, I will help. Don't be a salesman for a product no one wants regardless of whether they need it. When you help/teach just one person who is motivated (for whatever reason), they will be the catalyst for change. Not you. Just my two cents.