You don't. Half the point of nagios is to configure when you care and to have it monitor things for you. Typically by email. If you get too much email, I suggest configuring your client to treat CRITICAL status mail as special enough to pop up a window (unlike the rest of your incoming mail).
We poll this data every N minutes with a simple ruby script and create a webpage that has a listing of all the processes. If a service has a problem, then it is highlighted in red. 
Synergy works for me, but what if one of the other admins want to change the screen?  Is there any easy way that any of us (currently 4 people) can change the screen from our desktops?  (Remote desktop doesn't work because it locks the console which is the output to the TVs.)
In our office we use monit. Monit has a web interface that exposes the stats of the server as xml and json. 
We created a world map in Nagvis which shows status in each of the regions we operate in.  Clicking on a region status icon brings up a larger scale map of the region, showing the status of key devices in each office.
If you must have a status page, make it summarize the status. From my last job, I recall Opsview had a couple of nice pages, and the web frontend has parameters to where you can remove OK messages and only see the warning / unknown / critical services and hosts.
Neither of these are hugely useful to my team since we get alerts telling us what is going on, but it is very useful to management to get an overview (they get excited when everything is showing as green - hell, so do I :-)  Our support desk can also take a look at the various Nagvis pages instead of asking us "is there a problem with X?"
We did try displaying this on a screen which everyone could see, but it wasn't that useful.  Either we need a bigger screen, or a way to drive people to look at the appropriate Nagvis pages from their own workstation.
You can fit tens or hundreds of processes in one page without problem. You only act if you see glance to the monitor and see something in red. 
We also created schematics showing dependencies of our central systems, and overlayed status icons for each part of the system.
I have a large TV in my office plugged into an old PC that has my nagios status page always showing.  If I need to change anything on that computer I use Synergy to access the computer from my desktop.
In my office I have all our monitoring tools setup and working great, but I dont have an easy way to view them.  