Failing this, if it is in your outbox with a time and date, this is hard/impossible to fake on a web based email server (just check that changing your date/time and sending doesn't fake this). Then, print out and if you need to go to court, you could always have a laptop, 3g stick and projector and prove that it was sent... but again, only if it can be prooved that you can't fake this.
Send your emails through eevid.com, a freemium service that will deliver your email to the intended recipient and send you back a digitally signed PDF file that proves its contents and delivery. In seconds and without the recipient's intervention.
I am not sure you can force them in to this unless the place you need it for are involved in a criminal matter... It may work for civil, but you would need a court order.
Well, it's not really a way to  prove that the email was sent, but I sometimes like to BCC myself (maybe even to an alternate email account) to see that the email server did something with that important email.
The best bet is if you use a third party mail server that is impartial, and they can provide logs, that should stand as proof.
You also should consult with someone in legal where you live.  If I'm not mistaken, there was case law stating proof of attempt to send a payment is still useless.  There were cases where people mailed payments and the letters were lost.  They managed to get the postal system to verify that the letter got lost during transit, but the ruling went against them since the realty company had no way of knowing and no expectation that they had a duty to wait any more time due to a third party's failure.
You may have luck if you email Yahoo (and say you are willing to pay for their time on the matter) and try to get a log / proof that an email was sent on a time/date.
To have proof of receipt you'll need the equivalent of registered post here in the UK where the recipient has to sign for the letter.
If you wanted to go that level, have your legal representative subpoena the recepient's ISP's logs and their computer.  Have a forensics specialist go through them.  That "may" show receipt.  Short of that, email is a "best effort" protocol and does not guarantee delivery.  There are some ways to show you may have attempted to send, but short of examining the receiving systems, no other way to prove receipt that I'm aware of.
While the e-mail shows as sent in your mail client and it will probably be shown as sent in your ISPs mail server, there will be (many) other mail servers between there and the final recipient. At each one of these the e-mail could have got lost or delayed, so it could well be that your landlord's estate agent is telling the truth (though I'll admit it's more likely that they are lying).