I've been using KVM for about a month on my new laptop and like it a lot.  At work we run Xen on CentOS in production and feature wise they are very similar.  But KVM seems to be pretty solid and has a much more active community behind it so in some ways it's already surpassing Xen's features.  And I expect this gap to widen further with time.  
As KVM is embedded in kernel and a big community is around it, I suggest it :-). I use it today in production and I'm happy with that. You can use is has disk image or LVM like you wish.
You forgot a solution : KVM. I strongly suggest it ! I've red some news on internet relating the possibility of Xen source being deprecated because of Citrix choices.
definitely KVM. Not only is it the true Linux hypervisor, but it's also the one most developed by Red Hat, who are known to be a major code contributor. 
But if you don't need any windows support OpenVZ may be a pretty good solution.  It's similar to Solaris Zones and BSD Containers so it's not really "Virtualization".  But it also doesn't have some of the IO and hard provisioning issues that Virtualization has.  Under OpenVZ each VM can have guaranteed resources: ram, cpu, etc...similar to giving a VM ram and vcpu's.  But in addition to this each VM can also utilize all the available resources if the other VM's aren't using their guaranteed resources.  Which means if you have 10 VMs and 9 of them are idle the one that needs the cpu power can utilize the full processing power of the i7.
I do not recommend Xen Center at all ! I've a lot of experience on it and with high load I can confirm it doesn't work very well.
Since all you have is a single host, I wouldn't suggest you go with RHEV, but kvm is definitely the best choice in your case
So far I must say that I do prefer the network scripts from Xen over the KVM stuff though.  I've found that if you want a VM on your local subnet via bridging you really have to jump through more manual hoops to create the TAP devices and setup the bridge.  Where the Xen scripts handle this pretty well.