There is a videogame called SpaceChem which is based on principles of programming. You can read more about it here: http://gangles.ca/2011/06/19/programming-in-spacechem/
study of the mandelbrot set & fractals via visual/graphical explorations. the simple formula $z \leftarrow z^2 + c$ can be understood by kids who have learned complex numbers or even by kids who havent by replacing it with the formula written with reals only. also another case of complex or emergent phenomena arising from simple equations.
Or, even better yet, if you found an existing open source game he might like, let him play it then show him how to make little modifications you might be able to get him excited. (Modifications always seem to be the best way to get started)
A 12-14 year old that WANTS to should be able to handle just about anything, but he has to pull it in his own time, you can't really push complicated concepts to young people (or for the most part anyone).
I actually taught a summer camp mostly containing 4th, 5th graders, though I had one 2nd and one 3rd grader (your target age group). The camps were week long and I taught XNA showing them basics of if, else if and a simple for statement along with photoshop. The issue with XNA was I had to help them program quite a bit til the end of the week, the other camps we had going on included lego robotics and GameMaker, both still having the very root CS theory and kids love it.
You may want to look up topics covered in IOI competitions and national competitions. There are  summer schools and workshops related to IOI competitions starting at quite early age.
Kids can be really impressed with something simple though.  If you found some game he liked and helped him recreate it (even on a very superficial yet still graphically similar level) you may really get him going.
Also check ACM's K-12 CS Curriculum Resources, particularly page 11 and 12 of A Model Curriculum for K–12.
In my experience, it is not difficult to teach basic topics in combinatorics, graph theory, programming, algorithms and similar topics. 
I'm listening to iWoz at this point (which seems to be targeted at that age group and would be quite inspirational), by that age he was putting together some pretty advanced circuitry--but his father only ever answered questions, never handed him new concepts he wasn't ready for)
My personal favorite topic for such workshops is combinatorial game theory since it is easy to motive by playing games with the audience.