The existing virtual system can easily be moved with no changes to any other box running the same version of Virtualbox. This way the old system can run, albeit slower on an alternate system, until the new system has been fully installed, data migrated and tested. Virtualbox Export/import is the simplest way to transfer to another box. 
I'd recommend re-installing the base physical server system in addition to installing the new hypervisor for a production use virtualization server. I don't like having the leftover cruft (drivers, dlls) of removed applications that Windows doesn't doesn't handle well during un-installs. 
Rebuild the virtual server if you're changing virtualization platforms and have only one or a few servers to migrate. This is the cleanest method for production use windows based servers. 
If you are using a plain windows-server-environment you should consider using hyper-v with w2k8 as server as well.
While Virtualbox isn't really the appropriate tool for the job I can say that there are no issues running multiple virtual machines concurrently. At times I have as many as 5 different VMs running on my PC, which has only 2 cores and 16GB of RAM. One of those VMs is Server 2003 with Exchange 2003, although it's for development and testing, not production, so doesn't get a heavy workout.
Different virtualization platforms can be thought of as different hardware machines. In most cases, an install and migration of data is preferred rather than just moving the hard drive and re-activation, installing new drivers, removing old drivers, removing old apps, installing new apps, etc..
If you choose to convert the existing virtual you can use vboxmanage included in your existing virtualbox install. Don't forget to un-install the virtualbox additions and set your video to SVGA before you do the conversion.
You really shouldn't use Virtualbox for mission critical virtualization like Exchange. You should probably look into Hyper-V, ESXi, or Xen. Virtualbox is geared much more for home/desktop use and not for server virtualization. In an Exchange environment, you really want all of the performance that you can muster.