It's always annoyed me that while the sockets for network, serial, parallel and display cables all have securing mechanisms (ie a screw-in bolt, or a clasp) to stop them from being pulled out by jostling, there's nothing similar on power sockets (ie IEC 60320 C13 and C14 connectors). It seems to me that while accidentally knocking out a server's network cable is bad, it's nothing like as bad as accidentally knocking out its power.
I use mostly IBM servers and they have various methods of anchoring the power cable.  NetApp filers are the same way, as are Juniper switches and I think routers. 
We use APC racks, UPSes, and PDUs.  UPSes are hard-wired.  Connection from the UPS to the PDU is with a twist-lock cord (L5-20 or L5-30).
Note that you only see the benefit using the APC cords with an APC PDU.  The APC PDU still accepts normal power cords.
Every rack mount server I have purchased in the last 5 years, has came with power cable strain relief clips of some kind.  If properly used it would take a lot of force to pull the power cable.
For the last hop of the power connection (C13-C14, which seems to be what you are asking about), we use these special locking power cords from APC.
Using power distribution units/UPS systems actually increases the risk of this happening because you then have two poorly secured sockets per machine, rather than one.
I have used Panduit cable-tie anchors for this sort of thing.  They have small "loops" through which you pass a cable tie and are backed with adhesive to stick to the chassis.
If I really don't want a plug to be accidentally removed from a power strip, at least the type where you have access all the way around it, I use either one long or two shorter cable ties. Wrap them around the power strip and the upper part of the plug in a figure-8 fashion.
Is there any reliable, standards-compliant and relatively cheap way of securing C13/C14 connectors? I'm thinking about the sort of thing I can epoxy on the back of the servers that will hold the power cable securely. Are there any manufacturers who build something like this into their chassis?
Also, wherever possible, we try to use some form of strain relief on the server/device side.  See if you can Zip tie power cords against the back of the server so they are not taut.