Your motherboard's RAID is fake. True hardware RAID controllers begin from $250 alone, you can't expect such function built-in into broadly functional device (motherboard) for $50. Not only I experienced reliability issues with those RAIDs, but also these often harder to monitor and otherwise support. A fake RAID is software RAID supported by the special OS driver. Nobody knows how they wrote their driver and if it could improve read from RAID1 by spreading reads. So I hardly would assume it is more performant in this regard than pure software RAID made with OS volume management. Considering you even don't intend to boot from it, I would recommend to not to use this fake RAID function, and if you want RAID, use what OS provides.
On the other case, RAID0 is designed for performance, because it always interleaves writes and reads, thus spreading load to devices. It will be twice as fast to both read and write in any implementation. However, it is less resilient than a single drive, and you'll lose all the data if any of drives fails.
RAID1 in general has "same" performance on writing because you always write same data to both disks, but it can have "twice" performance for reading, because it can read parts from one disk and parts from the other. This read performance increase, however, depends on the particular RAID implementation; it is possible you won't experience it in your particular case. Also it is unknown how it would perform at all under multithreaded random load.
Primary purpose of RAID1 is resilience to HDD failure, because you always have same data on both disks and will still have that data even if some of them fails. The potential read performance increase here is a undesired (but nice) side effect.
If you want to host valuable data, never use RAID0. This might include game saves, which are unique to you and couldn't be restored if lost. Game programs and data, on the other hand, is not unique at all, it could be easily restored by reinstalling (or downloading again). If you want faster map loads, you may very well user RAID0 for that. But I doubt this increase will really improve gaming performance significantly.