A file based volume however is much slower and many tasks can take twice the time (again, I don't have any numbers but it is significantly slower).   
I've TrueCrypted my netbook HD (a Samsung NC10). There's no noticeable difference in day-to-day usage (but I don't do anything heavy like compile or use PhotoShop), apart from hibernating and restoring from hibernate, which is dramatically slower.
I already did this. Performance did not drop that much. De-/Encryption is performend in memory. And the newer versions mobilize multiple cores if available. You should settle with the fastest encryption method for more speed. You can benchmark the algorithms in TrueCrypt. AES is the fastest one, using combined encryption will slow down more.
If you plan to encrypt the whole disk the performance drop should actually not be that bad. Unfortunately, I don't have any numbers but the system seems to have about the same performance as before encrypting the disk, when running a standard development environment such as Visual Studio, SVN etcetera. 
Recommend what I do at home: Encrypt data only, don't use hybernation, and ask yourself how important are your data that someone makes the effort to analyze your pagefile.
At the end of the day, all other programs that you install on your computer will probably have much more impact on the general performance than encrypting the system disk.
I did not notice any performance backdrop at all, even though there must have been some. Check wikipedia for remarks on performance.
If you do Tools | Benchmark from within TrueCrypt, you can see the encryption rates for the different ciphers. Use the number of MB/s to determine how long it will take to dump the entire memory to disk. My NC10 take roughly 90 seconds to hibernate (with TrueCrypt), which is inconvenient, but not as inconvenient as it would be if I lost the netbook and had to deal with someone having access to all of my data.
I'd expect performance to drop heavily when writing but not as seriously when reading. You could monitor your Visual Studio disk and memory usage, compare it with what you can find in the web, and use delayed disk writes whenever possible.
My employer install PGP whole disk encryption on my Lenovo W500 and the subjective perfomance hit is a  30% to 50%. Everything is much, much slower. Most importantly start up and all program starts are delayed remarkably. Next issue: is disk defragmentation still working - cannot find any information and the performance hit may indicate there is some kind of issue. 