This will put any port into error disable that sees more than 1 mac address connected.  Either via traps or waiting until they call for help will allow you to identify where those unmanaged devices are connected.
Port-fast or edge port is implicit permission from RSTP point-of-view, if you remove this implicit permission, explicit permission must be gotten otherwise it'll fall back to classic STP timers. Which means even one non-portfast port will kill your subsecond RSTP converge.
Applying port specific commands in your configuration will reduce port initialization time in the event that the switch or the connected device power cycle, reboot or reload. They may also prevent misapplied configuration settings in the event the port does not properly negotiate.
In addition to spanning-tree portfast, you should also use spanning-tree bpduguard enable so that if someone creates a loop by plugging in things where they should not then the switch port will go into error disabled mode when it sees a BPDU rather than creating a loop and potentially bringing down the network.
Of course the caveat from Cisco - Caution:  Never use the PortFast feature on switch ports that connect to other switches, hubs, or routers. These connections can cause physical loops, and spanning tree must go through the full initialization procedure in these situations. A spanning tree loop can bring your network down. If you turn on PortFast for a port that is part of a physical loop, there can be a window of time when packets are continuously forwarded (and can even multiply) in such a way that the network cannot recover. 
As the default for Cisco switches is switchport mode dynamic desirable (Cisco Stackwise capable switches are the exception) every port attempts to negotiate its intended purpose. This negotiation process has four major phases and may take a full minute to complete.
If they're dumb switches (eg. don't run any STP), then it doesn't make much difference.  Speaking from Cisco experience, it'll catch the loop almost immediately in any event.  In the world of VMs, even an "edge port" can be a loop. (Our developers have learned that the hard way.)
You should run 'port-fast' (in standard terms edge port) in every port not part of your switch core. Even if it is switch.
Why running 'port-fast' or edge is crucial is performance of RSTP (and by extension MST) rely on it. How RSTP works is it asks downstream if it can go to forwarding mode, and downstream asks its downstreams until there are no more ports to ask frmo, then the permission propagates back up.
You should run BPDUGuard and BUM policers all interfaces, customer facing interfaces should be 1/5th or less of core facing limits. Unfortunately limiting unknown unicast often is not supported.