Check the permissions on the volume (drive) where the share is. Each user needs to have the "Bypass Traverse Checking" user right in order to get to the shared folder and it's contents, regardless of the permissions on the share itself. Make sure that the users have the "Traverse Folder\Execute File permission at the volume (drive) level.
Silly question but are UserB and UserC in a group that has a "deny" entry in the ACL?  You might want to check the Advanced permissions here too, as sometimes entries there don't show in the standard list.
Have you tried the two user accounts that are denied on the computer than has the user working fine? This may at least work as a process of elimination. If they can access it okay through that computer then perhaps suspect the computer configuration or domain/computer relationship. Perhaps disjoin them and rejoin them to the domain. But first check if the user accounts can access the shares on that other computer. Or  you could create another share with everyone with access to it and see if these user accounts can access this on at all. This may give you a little bit more insight into the matter as well.
Here's a long shot. Can your client machines browse to the server on the network and actually see the share? I have seen similar behaviour in the past that was related to browsing issues. Permissions were find but the machines couldn't locate the server and Windows error messages are known to be somewhat misleading at times.
If that's not it, generally what I do in these scenarios is try to narrow it down to a user or a machine problem, so I would get UserB to log on to UserA's machine (and vice-versa) and see what happens.  Same with UserA and UserC.  Based on the info from that exercise you should know whether to go looking at the user accounts or something on or with the PCs for further troubleshooting.
If you determine that it's the users, the next logical step would be to create test user accounts by copying the live ones, then trying to reproduce the problem yourself.