I would have to say OTRS.  First off, its open source and used by many large organizations.  I have implemented it at two companies including where I currently work.  I used it everyday for everything.  It has email to ticket functions and I have it authenticating with AD with ease.  Give it a look or try.  In the past I have used Numara Track-It and it was OK.  But the client was slow and fat.  I think their FootPrints web software would be a much better solution after using Track-It.
Not trying to be ultra obvious here, but Bugzilla can be configured rather easily to allow bug replies via email and even bug reporting via email. It has a lot of other nice email features such as "whine" (run queries on open bugs and send the output by email), and has tons of available customizations and integrations. Finally installing it is really easy and it mostly wants some perl modules to be there and you can be up and running in no time.
Request Tracker's fairly solid. We mostly use it for legacy reasons (it's what we have had for the last few years), and it hasn't caused us any grief. It does the job as it should; there's not much more to say.
In my company we use it very successfully and integrated it with the developers' IDEs (Eclipse with Mylyn), the subversion SCM (using hooks and WWW::Bugzilla) and even the build system. The QA guys are using Deskzilla which is a brilliant ticket managing desktop application (which also has a Jira version if you go for that).
I've used Kayako before. It runs on Open Source (php/mysql), however it does cost some money. It's not too bad in terms of pricing, but I'm not sure if you were asking for free or just Open Source technology. Everything is done through email, it's easy on the eyes, fairly affordable, easy to install and solid support.
My favourite is JIRA. It's open source but not free. Works here for more that two years without a glitch. It's main strength are customizable workflows, so you can adjust the tracking system to your own workflow (that people are used to, h+owever bad it is), not vice versa.