I recommend upgrading to Windows 7, where the security model is a little more like Linux or Mac OS.  You can run the desktop applications in Windows 7 as an ordinary user, and you will be prompted for your admin password as required for installation of apps and drivers, etc.  If while running Windows 7 you see a prompt for your admin password and you did not initiate an install or application update, then you know it was malware about to be installed and you can say cancel.  That isn't happening right now in Windows XP, and there is a half decent chance you already have stealthy malware on the system undetectable by the anti-virus product you use.  BTW, if you didn't already know, many malware target and cripple the anti-virus products.
Of course, you can install any security software you want, if the configuration isn't right, it'll do you no good. So make sure you check the settings. For firewalls I'd recommend to basically shut down everything. Nothing goes in, nothing goes out. After that, start to open ports on a need-to-open basis. You will want port 80 going out, for example, because that is the port HTTP uses by default. There are a few others and the internet knows them.
I think it would be best to handle this 'bottom up' (or top down, depends on your point of view), so to say, starting with the computers themselves, then going to your own network and ending with your computers on the internet, as it were.
The weakest link in your environment is Windows XP.  It is terrible for security.  Why?  Because everything you do there is done as a user with complete Administrator rights.
But then there is also the physical way of viewing it. Security on your box is no good if I can access it physically. Same goes for your network. I take it it's inside your home, but it is still a thought.
I run a small (1 man) consulting company in the field of embedded systems, working from home using a standard DSL internet access. My main development machine is a Windows XP PC, which is connected to the router with an ethernet cable. I also have a MacBook Pro laptop, which is connects to the network via WLAN (WPA-PSK).
At this moment, only WPA2 can be expected to offer reasonable security, especially if implemented with RADIUS (and not PSK). This is where the security versus resources comes into play. If you want more security, you will have to install a RADIUS server. This will come at a cost, however, so the added security might not out-weigh the added cost.
It's not about how often you can do backups - it's about how often you have verified your restore method works.
Then WPA came along and was much better. However, the WPA standard is already under jeopardy. The advent of the GPU as a calculation processor instead of doing graphics only has sped up key-cracking a humongous amount. So WPA is also out of the question.
Anything like not broadcasting your SSID is bogus, any tool can find your network anyway. So is registering MAC addresses. It takes about a minute to find an accepted MAC and set my adapter to it.
There is not much to secure about a wired network, to be honest. The most important thing here, in the network-sense, is the perimeter firewall. You can of course do all kinds of neat obfuscation like not using DHCP and using a different private subnet than default (192.168.1/24), but in the end they are not a security measure, they just make it a little bit harder to find out what you're doing.
I think the best you can do for now is use WPA2-PSK with a sufficient passphrase. Make it long, make it complicated.
Then there is a technical issues. For example, if you have a DoS, you should have an idea where to look at, who can help you. You may have to move/rebuild your servers/applications after a break in, do you know how to do it? How long? Are the backups good? Recent?
One issue is communication. Who do you tell and what do you tell? You do not have the issue of escalating the issue to the correct person, since it is only you, but you will have to tell your customers (or not), the police (or not) or other partners (if you have any).
Use the 'net to find a decent one, or, even better: buy a corporate version. From what I've heard McAfee is quite decent, as is Kaspersky.
Second would be to look at the protection of the computers in the firewall kind of way. Any computer needs a decent firewall, but there is a choice: you can firewall your individual machines, or you can do what is called 'perimeter firewalling'. I would suggest you choose the third option, a combination of both.
As a small operation you are not going to be investing a great amount in data backup and protection.  So try for something simple that just works for you.  Determine what data cannot be replaced if it were lost.  Determine how much data that is.  Come up with a plan to periodically back it up to DVD or possibly a USB drive or several.  Give that media to someone you trust that lives in another building (maybe your brother, etc.).  Now you have off-site backup.  (Put your product keys on that media as well.)
There are two aspects of security. 1) what to do to prevent a break-in and 2) what to do if when it happens. Others have covered 1), I will try some information on 2).
Basically, what I am telling you is that you should have some sort or disaster recovery plan/draft. This may be very valuable for other situations as well.
Your computers are actually the most important asset. They contain the data that needs protection, so I'll talk about them first.
In the beginning there was WEP. It was good enough at the time, because no-one could crack it in reasonable time. Currently, it takes about two to five minutes to crack it, on a reasonably busy network. So WEP is out.
The reason for doing both perimeter and workstation firewalling is simple: a perimeter firewall doesn't stop your workstation getting infected via email-attachment. Your antivirus product might, but a workstation firewall should ensure it doesn't spread via the network to any other computers.
The first thing to do to keep data safe is to implement a proper backup procedure. This ensures safety of your (their) data in the disaster-protection/recovery sense. What a proper backup procedure is, depends entirely on your budget and the sensitivity of the data you work with. A good starting-point would be an encrypted and off-site backup done via the internet.
Anti-virus software and other malware scanners can only reliably detect inactive threats on disk. Active malware can modify the OS kernel, your anti-virus software and your personal firewall. As soon as you have malware running on your system, it becomes untrustworthy and you should assume anything you see on screen is a lie. Recover from known good backups.
Well, the subtitle is slightly weird. That's because this actually could have the same subtitle as the previous header. The third step to protecting the data on your computers is to make sure no data (i.e. programs) with malicious intentions can run on your computers. To do this, of course you need an up-to-date browser as you mention. But you also need a way to inspect what is what and what is and what is not malicious. In other words: you need a virus scanner.
Now that your computers are essentially secure, it's time to secure your network. It's important to know that any encryption or safety can be breached, given enough time and resources. Also: a possibility that is not there, is no possibility. That sounds obvious enough but it's very important.
Actually, your question is much broader than the title says it is. It involves not only security as in protection against malicious intent, but also protection against things you do not have influence over (i.e. fires, earthquakes, that sort of thing).
Besides enabling the Windows firewall, not using IE, having an up-to-date antivirus program and strong passwords, what do I need to know to keep my customers' data safe on these computers?
The wireless network is much more of a PITA. Unlike the wired network, you don't need a physical plug to access it. So it stands to reason that the security must be that much stronger. Fortunately, 'they' have thought of this and given us wireless encryption.
The other thing is choosing decent passwords. The internet has plenty on this, too, but rest assured that it's quite important.