Answer: Using the Word Field Code parameters of LINK you can specify a named range as a Viewing Area.
I haven't exactly found a true solution, but I do have a work around that may work if you need to readjust for an undersized excel chart:
The question was specifically around a 'live link' (meaning the Excel file exists externally to the Word doc, and controlling the view is a complex problem not solved by any of these answers). 
To change the 'viewing window', simply re-define or update the named range from within Excel, save, then select and F9 the object/image in Word and you should be good to go.
I know this is old but I think I was having the same issue in Office 2013. When I copied a named range in excel and used paste special as "linked excel worksheet object" in ppt, I always ended up with extra columns to the right in my ppt slide. It was bugging me to death so hopefully this may help a few people. 
The best way I have found is to highlight the area you are copying in Excel, right click on ppt slide and page embedded object - the icon looks like a little white box in the middle of the paste special options. This will paste it with the boundaries you originally highlighted. Be careful if you need to edit though as it is pretty unstable and may reset the boundaries again.
For me, the issue was the page view in excel. If I switched to Normal view in excel, the cells show fine in ppt.
In the 'activated' state (when clicked on), the Excel object has a border around it.  Halfway on each border (top, left, right, bottom) is a small black box.  If you acquire the box you can drag it to resize the visible area of the spreadsheet. Then click outside the box to return to Powerpoint.
If the excel worksheet is in the "page layout" view (which is what i was using when copying the cells), it always led to extra columns shown when pasting or updating link in ppt. 
Sometimes when you insert a spreadsheet as an embedded file using the Insert > Object method it goes a bit weird and refuses to adjust the size properly. 
If I switched to normal view, it pasted fine in ppt with the correct column numbers. If you switch back to a different page layout in excel and then update link in ppt, the extra columns will come back. 