I echo the joeqwerty - Keep it simple, and label things. I do like to keep disks near the cooling and work away, with the switches on top - or using 0 U mountings on the side. You'll want to keep a U below the switch free for the cables running back to the servers (seems silly to force you to front mount a switch, but meh.)
We put all the servers and SAN at the very bottom of the rack, so it was easier to rack them because of their weight and size.
If you do a good job with the cabling, moving servers in the rack (while not a great plan) is doable.
There are as many ways to do this as there are opnions on the subject. My opinion is to keep it simple: firewalls, routers, and switches go at the top of the rack. The heaviest equipment goes on the bottom and then work your way up from there. Leave a U or two in the middle for a pull-out KVM tray, about waist to chest high, if you plan to put one in the rack.
I like to mount the switches in the middle, it keeps the cables a bit more manageable.  And push back on that front mounting.  The switches mount on the rear, IMHO.  Can you imagine tracing a cable from front to back?
I must admit that I need to keep my OC tendencies in check when I'm figuring out where to put things.
We also put the switches on the back of the rack, so there aren't cables running to the front of the rack, and everything is nice and tidy in the back.
Trying to break things out by function will just lead to insanity. The most that I would do is disks down low, 2U servers on the disks, perhaps some free space for more 2U boxes, and then 1U servers on top.
Trying to populate the rack by function is probably going to lead to frustration. You've got a new file server but no room where the file servers go, etc.
Is this a rack they are providing?  Do they provide the power strips (PDUs) as well?  Do the PDUs require rack units too or are they vertical mount?  I'm assuming that you have two PDUs.  You should verify that they are powered from two different upstream UPSes.  If they are not, that might change your decision on how you are setting up the power.
If your cooling is from below (raised floor) you want your high power draw servers close to the floor.  Reverse for overhead cooling.