If you don't foresee needing anything scalable to the extent that AWS is scalable, Digital Ocean is another currently popular hosting provider that is closer to the "renting a box" paradigm.  For $5 per month, you can rent a VM that has 512MB RAM, 1 core CPU, 20GB SSD Disk, and 1TB of bandwidth; they also have more expensive options with more resources.
The biggest pain point you're likely to encounter is that AWS can be very confusing for beginners.  There are many services - EC2 for controlling VMs, S3 for storing individual files, EBS for persistent disks, RDS for external databases, etc.  When you think of AWS as "just a Linux VM" it doesn't make sense why you'd want any of those extra services; but when you need to start scaling up the number of servers you're running or when you need to store a virtually unbounded amount of data, having those components available external to your VM is exactly what allows you to scale.
You can use pre installed server software, many versions of Debian, Freebsd, Windows, Ubuntu. 32/64 bit. 
What early companies did was only make one server to keep track of other servers (each hosted by players with a spare Linux machine) and have their game connect directly to that to provide players places to go.
It may partially depend on the type of game you're creating. If the response for a particular action doesn't depend on per-second responsiveness (ie, a space trading game where players travel between worlds buying/selling goods) then those web services may be fine. For a fast-paced shooting game with precise hit detection, you'll almost certainly be going the route of some sort of native-code Linux server (as wingleader suggested).
wingleader is correct, if you're up for creating your own Linux-based server program. One option is to use one of several cloud-computing options, which often are a bit more sandboxed using particular coding environments. I haven't ever used their services myself, but if I have the correct idea,
What about VPS servers? They can be pretty cheap and easily upgradeable because of their flexibility.
Search google for "Dedicated server", that is the best option when hosting your game, you got access to the machine, but you must know how to move around it.
For as low as six cents per hour, you can have your own Linux virtual machine (typically running Ubuntu or CentOS).
VPS ( Virtual private server ) servers differ from real servers in the fact that they are actually just one of many virtual machines running on a real server, which makes it pretty customizable and flexible.