Is there any data on this backup drive that is not from your Time Machine backup? Is more than one Mac using the drive as a backup drive? Time Machine from one computer can't weed out data from another's backup to make room for itself.
Example: My internal 1TB fusion drive recently developed bad sectors, with major beach balling, so I switched to using a 2TB external SSD over USB 3.0 as my startup disk (I highly recommend Superduper, by the way). 
Time Machine, backing up to a 1TB spinning external HDD, promptly run out of room, despite my startup disk using rather less than 1TB right now.  So I wiped the Time Machine backup and tried to reset it - it still kept failing with an estimated size of 1.6TB.  Why could that be?
Turns out it was trying to backup both the original internal "Macintosh HD" as well as the new SSD drive, so you need to exclude the entire old drive for a full backup to fit within the available space.
As stated within Time Machine's preferences, "The oldest backups are deleted when your disk becomes full." This process works great so long as you don't have a large amount of data added to your source disk at one time.
Solution: Navigate to your backup disk using Finder. Manually delete the oldest backup folders (i.e. perform the task Time Machine typically is able to do automatically) then, tell Time Machine to "Back Up Now". You'll be back on track and good to go until the next time you pull in a large amount of data to your source disk while Time Machine is running on a "full" backup disk.
Using Finder, look inside /Volumes/<your backup disk>/Backups.backupdb/<your computer's name>/Latest.
I made sure I didn't still need anything in that backup, then deleted it.  Backups have proceeded normally from there.
Sometimes Time Machine gets jammed up when there is a really big change in data. I can see that you have over 12GB to back up and only 2GB available. The changes have either been building up for awhile or something large was recently changed on your drive. 
First, I wanted to point out that it's strange that the dialog shows commas in the numbers instead of decimal points. I'm not sure what's up with that. If Chris Nava's reply didn't help you, read on.
Are you backing up a monolithic database of some kind that changes regularly? Something like Entourage's mail database can get very large and a single new mail message tags it as completely new for Time Machine. This can cause a Time Machine Backup to fill up quickly. The Photo management application Aperture does the same thing.
Open preferences and make sure it says "The oldest backups are deleted when your disk becomes full."
Or, like in my case, you look there and find nothing interesting, but fail to look in ../Latest right away which would have made you realize that your old computer (same hardware, pre-Lion clean-install) had the same name as the new one but a custom hard drive name.  The backup from the old hard drive name was never re-used and never deleted.
I had the same issue you've described above after downloading a really big file and doing an OS X upgrade. With a change that big, Time Machine didn't have the space necessary to purge the old data and make space for the new.