Google DNS is great but they do go down on occasion. As I write this, 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 are both unusably slow.
Every request sent through a DNS server can be logged and that data collated. This isn't tin foil hat stuff, I know companies that do similar. Who do you trust more with that data, your ISP or Google? That should be part of the decision.
Please note I'm not saying don't use Google, just don't put all your eggs in the same basket. Why not use 8.8.8.8 and your ISPs primary nameserver?
For a personal computer, I recommend Google because they are fast and they will give you an error if there is a failure unlike most ISPs which will take you to an annoying search page.
For most ISPs, it's a no brainer because their DNS tends to really suck. DNS makes a huge impact for user experience.
The only downside from my point of view is that you may notice poor performance for sites that use CDNs. I noticed that iTunes download performance wasn't as good with Google DNS... but that's just me.
The privacy issue is a non-starter for me. The only difference between Google monitoring your activities and your ISP is that Google is probably better at getting actual value out of the data. The Jeff and Joel had a really good discussion on the Google DNS issue in one of the later StackOverflow podcasts that is worth listening to. 
The only way to really decide is to benchmark it.  It is going to be different depending on your connection.  You should use a tool like http://www.grc.com/dns/benchmark.htm to find out what is really quicker
For servers colocated in data centers, I recommend using the DNS that your DC provides. You can call your DC in the event of an outage whereas Google cannot be contacted and is responsible for nothing.
Secondly, the reason everyone shouldn't be using Google's DNS is down the whole nature of the Internet. As it stands, no one company runs or controls the Internet in any way - you have a choice which ISP you use, who you host with, where you host, how you host, who your DNS is hosted with, who you use for your DNS lookups. There is no one person in control and there is no single point of failure or compromise.
Perhaps you aren't all "tin foil hat" yet; but Google internally is wondering if you should be. There was an internal Google document leaked recently where they ponder if they should start mining all the data they possibly can.