Just wondered if you'd tried using a Pivot Table. I wrangle a lot of data using PT's and they help me look at problems in multiple ways very quickly and with complete data integrity.
An alternative would be to use you master list as the criteria to base an advanced filter from, which would enable you to very easily take a copy of the transaction list entries which match your customer names, and place this filtered copy elsewhere (eg off to one side, or on another sheet). Just as with the above, you would still need to add variants where they are too distant from your original name.
You could use MATCH or COUNTIF with similar results to give a column showing which transactions match up to your list.
You might have some success using successive SUBSTITUTE functions to generate an alternate verion of the names. eg
Highlight all you data and select insert Pivot Table. You'll now be able to review your data in lots of interactive ways that will allow you to narrow down any pesky double entries, mispellings, etc. You can then sort using custom sorts, etc as well as A-Z.
This will only match exact names.  What you'll have to do is add alternate names to the Master range (make sure to sort it after adding names) to get all the possible versions.
From my experience of similar fuzzy matching between names from disparate systems, you may have to drop things like inc, corp, plc etc to get matches. While you can use SUBSTITUTE for this, you could get some odd results with things like "Income Corporation" becoming "omeorporation", so it may be safer to use this sort of thing:
I agree with the approach of adding alternative spellings to your master list (you might have a second column to tell you which one is your preffered format for mailing etc, and which is just to match the company data).
Let's say your master list is in a named range called Master and the company name in the transaction log is in column D.  Somewhere on the transaction's row, enter the following formula:  =IF(ISNA(MATCH(D1,Master,0)),0,1) and copy it to all the rows in the transaction table.  This formula will result in 1 if the company name matches and 0 otherwise.
So each substitution replaces any instance of the selected text with the replacement - nothing in our case here.