FOG, its a free and open source cloning tool we used at my school, can clone a machine in less than 20 minutes usually. you just need a linux box running ubuntu or fedora, and a HD big enough to store the images
For the longer term it's best to convince procurement of the advantages of buying exactly the same type/brand/model of computer hardware for this to work smoothly.
Were it not for our constraints, multiboot, and imaging 500GB to 200 machines all at once, in a short period of time, we would deploy a minimal OS configured with a configuration management solution. Some options you might look at are
Pushing out images over the network, or having an imaging machine that has many sata ports to locally image drives when they com in might be the way to go.
Is there a way to turn on a computer with Windows XP pro installed and then put in a CD and leave it to install all updates and programs etc
I work for a very large University, we use a combination of use Norton Ghost, and a number of other tools to manage our SOE (Standard Operating Environment).  We also use SysPrep before we image the machines before we make an image.  
I am responsible for a group that amongst it's responsibilities maintains a couple hundred similar machines that have the following requirements:
It would be easiest for you to make a Ghost image on a bootable Dual Layer DVD (We use the BartPE environment, but there are many simple bootable CD/DVD solutions
The method that we use is a Gold Image method, with a IGMP multicast/IP session management layer. A simplified version of our gold image setup and deployment is as follows
For windows only environments the ability to push software packages via GPO is worth investigating as well.
I've used DriveImage XML and Norton Ghost to perform the actual drive imaging.  You can use them with sysprep as @Col has explained.
Make sure that you install all of the drivers for each of the different PC types on the image you are rolling out.  To do this Audit all of the computers to see what hardware they have got and group them into similar hardware type (usually by motherboard chipset type). Make an image with Ghost of the biggest group, then install that image onto one of the PCs from the next group of PCs, and update the drivers.  Do this until you have copied the image to each different hardware type and the final image will contain the drivers for every different hardware type.  When some new computers (with new hardware) come in, we install our image onto that PC and update the drivers.  
With a bit of planning an a little bit of hard work you can make it very easy to manage a very large number of computers with a very small number of people (we have 3000+ PCs and Laptops, 400+ Blackberries, 500+ iPhones, 750+ Printers and there are 8 techs; we still have time for drinks on Friday afternoon!) 
We as a company order in 30 computers a month and this involves a gruelling process of turning them all on, downloading and installing updates, then install the same programs over and over again