You can also use the repair disk option to change up what key an installation will take: http://www.mydigitallife.info/2009/08/16/how-to-change-windows-xp-version-between-retail-oem-and-volume-license-channel/ (explaination of the Pids is also in this article)
But then again, the EULA is not really specific about "What is part of the license". For OEM Versions there sometimes isn't even an installation Medium. As said, very grey area.
According to the licence document referenced by @fortheworld, if you don't have and can't obtain the original recovery solution, you have to buy a new license. That's the legal basis, and if you want to operate strictly by the rules (for instance, if you are a business and need to cover your ass really well), then you should find a way to obtain original install media, or buy another copy of windows.
I can't imagine a situation where you could be successfully prosecuted for having the version of Windows that matches your product key sticker installed on your PC, even if the re-install happened via 'interesting' means.
on the other side, the Product Key is usually seen as "good enough". I am not aware of any case where Microsoft sued people that had a valid COA but no valid Installation media. I've even had my Windows activated over the phone (by a human) after I used a different installation media (64-Bit English Vista instead of 32-Bit French Vista) and there were no problems.
Ethically: I don't see any issue as long as you can get your hands on an install CD that matches the Version of windows you bought (OEM, VL, Retail, MSDN). I'm talking about a full install not a restore cd with an embedded key. 
On an ethical basis, I fail to see how MS deserves to get paid twice for an OEM copy of XP just because the original recovery solution is missing (or trashed by an idiot computer repair guy or failing HD). From an ETHICS standpoint, if you've got the case sticker, and it's the original PC, then there's no ethical problem with obtaining a plain-jane windows OEM CD and using the product key you have. Other posters have addressed the logistics of this pretty well.
Personally I have no ethical qualms about it since I am fully licensed.  Often OEMs will send out a RTM disk (released to manufacturing) that they have been sending out for years but slap a COA for windows with service pack 2 on the machine.  Naturally the two are out of sync.
Go to the file i386\setupp.ini in that file there is a value like this: Pid=76487270 which means it is a windows xp sp3 volume license key.  If you change it to be Pid=82503OEM it will now only take OEM or COA license key with no Service packs applied disks.  You can make a copy of the disk, change setupp.ini and using something like nlite burn it back onto a disk.  the last three digits are the type of key, 335 is retail, 270 is volume license and OEM is OEM (which includes the COA)  Here is a sample list of the PIDs for common versions:
Technically: This is where you will run into issues. 1) As noted already there are different keys for different version of Windows (OEM, VL, Retail, MSDN) on top of that there are what are called "X numbers" for the keys - these are basically version numbers. If you look at the right hand side (or bottom on older COA's) of your COA sticker there will be Something that looks like X11-xxxxx The X11 part is important. It needs to match the "X Number" on the cd you are installing, otherwise the cd won't accept the key. 