First, if you've got devices running on two different subnets on the same logical/physical LAN, then you are going to have essentially zero security on that LAN between subnets. While you ~think~ the devices will be unable to access anything, you cannot be sure you won't have a rogue device. Because of this, I'm going to straight-up assume that this is not the case. Following that, it's fairly easy to set up a Linux Box with IPTables as a router. It's fairly detailed in the configuration of the linux box and some of the specifics may depend on exactly which distro you are running, but the basic box is two NICs, one plugged into each network, followed by some software that will do routing (Easy to find, even included in some distros) followed by your IPtables configuration. Plug NIC1 into 192.168.0.0/24 and NIC2 into 192.168.1.0/24 and you have a bridge between the two subnets for traffic that needs to travel between them.
I can't speak for Linux, but I have a simpler question, what are you trying to accomplish here?  (I am going to aimlessly guess and see if I might get close, but you should clarify in your question.) 
As far as "trusted" hosts go, anyone that can plug something into your network would be untrusted, but unless you are authenticating the client (IPsec/Certificate/etc)  it is possible to change the MAC and IP address on just about any network adapter.  So you can't just "trust" them in that fashion.  Since I don't know what you needs are, I can't really comment on that.  There are methods that are available on switching hardware like 802.1X that might be what you are looking for.
Typically subnets are physically or logically separated.  Either because they are on different hardware or done using VLANs or some other logical segregation. Meaning even if you have an IP from one subnet, it won't work on another because the devices used to route traffic off that subnet aren't p
Here's that second part: It would be far simpler for you to purchase (even a used) router from a reputable manufacturer than it would be for you to assemble and configure this linux box to do the same task. Most real routers are capable of doing ACLs, which is really about what IPtables would be doing for most of the config, and some routers are capable of doing Zone-based Firewalls with packet inspection. A used Cisco 1841 would not set you back much, and would be about as "legit" as the Linux RouterWall combo you're asking about. A little bit of google-fu and you can probably find enough Cisco CLI commands to straighten you out fairly quickly and get that box up and doing what you need it to do within less than twenty minutes. I'm not against anyone ever doing something the "hard way" just for the fun of it...but unless that's your goal, it seems to me like you're trying really hard to fix a problem with an answer that's more complicated than the problem itself.
It seems like you are trying to connect two subnets and allow traffic.  Ok fine, but if the subnets are physically separate, you can't just use the other subnet if the routing interface doesn't exist on that subnet.  Meaning even if you change your IP to 192.168.0.223 on the 192.168.1.x subnet, it won't be able to route to your gateway (Linux box) because it is simply on the wrong subnet.