Based on the initial complaints you mentioned, about a lack of variance and your subsequent assumption that a slider takes care of the variance you think would work, I've just got a few things to suggest that might help, without being able to draw on a thesis of game design which really wouldnt apply here and tbh sounds like a bunch of unnessesary chaff.
I would advice to calculate the hit-chance for each independent bullet, since that would allow you to occasionally hit an opponent from a distance with a high spread weapon, at the cost of lower damage. (A shotgun fires multiple pellets per round - say 7 pellets -  and only X of those hit the opponent if you fire from a distance, X being lower the farther you are removed from your opponent.)
Also, does your game include the concept of character class? If so, you can limit certain character classes to equip only certain type of weapons. That way, the overall diversity will feel higher, even tough players will have less alternatives for each character.
Basically, you have a slider moving from range to rate of fire. You're missing a modifying bend on that slider, where a high rate of fire doesnt necessarily have the accuracy desired, as others have suggested an area of effect could come into play. In most games of the genre I've played, I'll usually trade off rate of fire and damage to get a medium kill zone, so while I'm not threatended the weapon isnt useless when in close quarters. Usually means I'm a mage, but the occasional weaponsmith comes along sometimes (thanks torchlight) which makes guns a valid option. And shotguns are just pistols for those who suck at aiming.
Consider allowing certain kinds of skills only with certain kinds of weapons; relate those skills to the nature of the weapon in real-life. Daggers, for example, could feasibly be thrown and might have a few range-related skills (but you're not likely to be hurling your giant two-handed sword around; perhaps it would have instead skills for rendering foes immobile by damaging or destroying their limbs).
Damage and attack speed are one way to provide a pro/con relationship -- high damage/slow rate of fire versus low damage/high rate of fire -- for example. But that relationship can be a mathematical no-op if the resulting DPS is the same. If you put weapons out of alignment, such that the DPS is not always the same, then as you said you have an obviously better weapon.
TL;DR; - Stop restricting your weapon design to just DPS and add enough diversity to make it more of what feels right to a player. Explosions, flashing lights, dancing monkey.
Another idea that comes to mind is how weapons interact with other pieces of gear. Do you have the concept of one handed vs two handed weapons? Can characters dual wield one handers? Can certain types of weapon combine with specific pieces of gear? Most probably you already implemented such a system, but I mention it just in case.
I just want to reinforce the idea of allowing certain skills to work just on an specific weapon type.
People will always have their favourites, you arent going to change that. However, adding twists into the mix such as specific weapon classes/models required to access bonuses as has been mentioned previously, you can create the desire for your array. Like picking up a rifle extension that makes a shotgun long range capable.
The spread of a gun modifies this penalty (i.e. low spread weapons like rifles work effectively on long distance, while high spread weapons like shotguns are almost useless at long distance.)
So while your slider is now more of a graphic equaliser patch panel with logarythmic curves and assorted motorised dollies associated to it, I hope that some of my ramblings might have provided some ideas you could apply to your game to hush the moaners. Oh and there will ALWAYS be moaners.
So, consider adding further attributes or effects to weapon types, or to the combat system in general. For example, if your game supports the idea of "% chance to do X on hit" effects, that can allow you to drop the overall DPS of "fast" weapons, since "fast" weapons would make up for that by affording more opportunities for the "% chance" roll to trigger. Thus, the player has a choice between a weapon that offers a higher pure DPS or one that has a lower DPS but a higher overall chance of triggering on-hit effects.
And then there's damage type you could model: piercing versus slashing versus bludgeoning damage. In D&D, certain creatures could only be hurt with certain kinds of damage. While that might be too draconian for modern games, you could incorporate some amount of that flavor.
Further, by using acid splash you might be adding aoe but its useless against say, energy shields or maybe when using molten metal ammo the capacity in a mag is reduced. A certain battery pack ( if it was an energy weapon ) could provide a stronger shot, but have a reduced capacity of energy before you need to pick up kmore of the vanilla input. You have so many avenues here I admit I dont envy the choices you have to make. When I sat down and started trying to make games the immediate flood of ideas about what I wanted to make was overwhelming, even trying to lock down a genre was hard let alone a subgenre.
What you really need to do is force players to make an interesting choice; games are all about interesting choices.
I think focussing on DPS alone is just going to be boring, yes players want to get the job done but if you can get an emotional aspect to come into the mix then its less of a calculated puzzle and more of a fun romp killing and looting.
Not sure if this works in your game, but you could add accuracy/spread as an attribute to your guns:
So your slider secretly needs to invoke a usefulness rule. Long range slow firing weapons suck when ambushed, and high rate of fire weapons generally suck when taking out a sniper or grenadier.
To me, futuristic sci fi allows a range from a pistol which can have heavy slugs, dual weild ( basically double dps ) and energy based projectiles; shotties allow again the use of slugs but have a lot more fore to them. and reduced mag. Machine guns have increased mag sizes but are generally lower accuracy and of course firing rate can eat through ammunition which one might not be able to spare. And then rifles ( I still dont see the point in anything other than fps or the old "commandos"/"cannon fodder" games of old where you got a little reticle as a mouse cursor.
For instance take Vagrant Story and its Break Arts. Break Arts are skills which are tied to each specific weapon type (swords, daggers, axes, etc.), and are obtained as you use any weapon of that type. That way, Break Arts also play a role while deciding how to gear yourself.
Another thing to consider is having modifiers for weapons, strip out the concept of 70 different pre fab weapons giving nods to mp4's and ak's, and instead have like 5 or 6 weapons that they can mod the hell out of. Have ammo/battery pickups be more of a straight ammunition increment, and make the player do their own interesting things. have different mags that modify the ammunition properties, say using this green mag I add acid splash to my shots, or this red mag could have molten metal in it. Like, the guns could modify the vanilla ammo picked up to suit. you can still then restrict the pickups at that stage too, so shotgun/pistol/machinegun/sniper ammo, and then the players control what happens next.
You can also apply certain kinds of effects exclusively to certain kinds of attacks. For example, in Skyrim, each flavor of magic (fire, ice, lightning) has a unique side-effect. Fire magic causes additional damage over time via burning, whereas cold magic slows the target and lightning magic reduces the target's own mana pool. This provides a choice for players, even though the overall DPS (ignoring resistances) may be the same: they get to choose a style that complements how they want to play, either a brute force approach via fire damage or a more subtle one via cold spells.