There is no reason to require leases for this.  Simply purchase the machines in flights like you are suggesting.  also make sure to go with the business class machines which are likely to stick around for much longer.
As far as knowing the versions of things, you may want to look at a Systems Management software rather than just going based on your images.  System Center Essentials would be appropriate for your organization size and will sit you in good stead going forward and moving towards the Enterprise level System Center products.  Alternately there are other software offerings to assist with this such as Altiris's Deployment Server (I'm not 100% certain of the naming on the Altiris products).
I recently came accross http://www.virtualcomputer.com/Products/nxtop and it looks quite interesting, might be of use in a smaller environment.
Since we buy computers in batchs of 1 to 5 even getting the same model will usually mean slightly different chip sets, video cards, etc when there are a couple of months between purchases that it makes doing machine images impractical
The first thing you will want to do is get a handle on how your software will be purchased/licensed.  You may already have the licenses you need depending on how you got your existing licenses.  This is also the time to look at upgrading to vista (especially since there is no upgrade path from XP).  As far as deployment goes you can use Windows Deployment Services WDS from server 2008 or 2003 (even if you choose XP).  System Center would be a great add on depending on how much software and config management you need to do.  With 20 users you're probably on the cusp of needing it (vs. nice to have).  So plan on evaluating it before purchase.  One thing no ones mentioned is that it's likely you will not have 1 standard image unless you are running vista (since it's very unlikely the CEO and the facilities manager will have similar laptop needs) So you will be using multiple laptop types.  It would be really really nice if you could get the same laptop for everyone but it should be top of the line in that case (as it will probably have to last a while).  Also a couple of points about buying the OEM windows OS:
Also I agree, no reason to lease, you'll be cheaper in the long run to purchase especially if you drag out how long you keep them, even if they end up being test machines or spares in year 5