If you hate the constant prompt for creds, perhaps using something that can take creds instead of runas ... but then storing creds in a script exposure plus perhaps eroding the benefit of running as lower account.
I solve this problem by doing rdesktop to another system (usually a server), and logging in as the domain admin.
One thing that's annoyed me for a great while about administrating a Windows domain is trying to work primarily from a limited user account.  Much of what I do on my workstation on a day to day basis doesn't require admin rights, so I prefer to run as a limited user for security reasons.  The problem, of course, are all those times when I have to do something as a domain admin.
Often times I only need a file browser to run with elevated privileges, and it appears as though there's no way to run an Explorer instance in this manner (via Runas).  It also appears that browsing files via IE is now just running an Explorer process, and is thus limited in the same way.
I've been running FreeCommander via Sysinternals ShellRunas for this purpose, and it works.  It's just not a good experience.
The separate is an undocumented flag but it launches it in a separate process window (AKA it will not check for an existing explorer shell before launching)
With Windows Vista "fast user switching" finally worked for machines in a domain, but I have a few problems with it: 1) Switching is slow, 2) About one out of five times, switching user accounts will cause Vista to forget my display settings to the point where they cannot be restored without a restart.  Fun stuff.
You can run Explorer under another user context, but you have to kill the existing Explorer first to do it, and it's really pretty ugly. If you really want to try it, open a command-prompt with "RunAs" and your domain administrator account. From that command prompt, use "Task Manager" to kill the existing "Explorer.exe" and then start a new one. You'll get an elevated "Explorer.exe" running as the domain administrator account.