If the IP address and subnet mask have been entered manually, make sure the subnet mask matches that of the Windows 7 machine by following the same step on W7.
Now, press Win+R and in the Run command box, type: \\Localhost. Verify that all your shared folders are present here.
A typical device not supporting SMB 2 or newer are older FritzBox routers (popular in Germany), and if you try to access a USB hard disk attached to act as a NAS, you'll be unable to reach the router trying to connect to it.
Click on "Change advanced sharing settings" on the left pane and expand the "Private" sharing profile and make sure that Turn on network discovery and Turn on file and printer sharing are selected.
Do this by pressing Win+R and in the Run command box, type: shell:ConnectionsFolder and select your network adapter for the wired Ethernet connection and press Alt+Enter. In the Properties window, scroll down to Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) and double click it.
I had something similar, but I could connect to SOME shared folders, but not others on a single client PC.
In the computer running Windows 8, press Win+R and in the Run command box, type:control /name Microsoft.NetworkAndSharingCenter and press Enter.
Expand the "Guest or Public" profile and make sure that Turn off network discovery and Turn off file and printer sharing are selected.
I had what I THOUGHT was the same user name on the XP (host) machine, but couldn't connect to certain folders on it.  It turns out that although the "Full name" was the same on both PC (in Admin, Local Users and Groups, Users), the "Name" was different.  Once I added the same "Full name" to the host, everything worked as expected. 
Expand the "All Networks" profile and scroll down to the bottom of the window and under "Password protected sharing", select Turn off password protected sharing.
Since Windows 10 1709, the old SMB v1 protocol is not supported anymore by default, which is still used by several PCs or other network devices like routers providing a NAS. Note that SMB v1 might have been uninstalled on older Windows machines aswell. Follow these steps to re-enable it and access such devices again.
My guess is that the problem was caused because some folders had been created by one user on the host machine, and others (that I couldn't access) were created by the other.
Now switch to the W7 box and in the Run command box, type: \\HOSTNAME_OF_W8_BOX and see if you can access the files and folders on W8 now.
By adding the user name for the client machine on the host machine, I got access to all the shared files.  
Beyond the above solutions solving generic / classic issues with this error code, another new issue can cause 0x80004005.
Select a folder from the list and press Alt+Enter and in the Sharing tab, press the Share button and type in Everyone in the dropdown list and press Enter and set the "Permission level" to Read. Do this for every folder you want to share.
However, while searching i found another useful resource which has several steps list other then the one above; so if you wish you may try this at http://appuals.com/best-fix-steps-fix-error-0x80004005/
To make matters worse, I could connect to all of them from one login name on the client PC, but only some of them using another login name.  And as far as I could see, both login names were set up on both PCs.  