I was told by my senior to add the cert to our gpo to install it district-wide.  What confuses me is that based on GoDaddy's instructions, since they offer an intermediate cert accompanied, don't I have to have the intermediate cert somewhere publicly available to then receive the primary certificate, or is that essentially what I accomplished when I set up the initial request to download the certificate?
We recently had a project pushed through that I didn't have time to research first.  We were asked to set up a site and purchased a wildcard certificate from GoDaddy.  The instructions for most of the certificate requests and installs are for apache, iis, etc.  I was told by their support to make the request from the domain name server, so I did it from the DC that holds the FSMO roles.  Now I can download the wildcard cert but I only see instructions on how to implement it through iis services, which is a role our DC doesn't have.
What I'm sure is that you have a private key for the certificate (so the certificate in the bottom right corner has a little yellow key) in his icon.
Below, two resources from GoDaddy will give you detailed information and help you step by step for where you are missing the process.
If so you can use MMC/certificates and search on the local computer and in the local user stores. you should find it in the local computer storage and in there you can export it to a PSF file with a password that you can easily just go thru servers and right click install ...
The intermediate cert will need to be available during the SSL handshake to authenticate properly. What do you get if you go to https://www.sslshopper.com/ssl-checker.html and put in the domain name where the cert is installed?
I thought that the proliferation of the wildcard certificate would mean that I would no longer see errors while attempting to browse to anny iis-hosted site ie. computername.fqdn.com.  This was initially done to use Federation Services tied in through a proxy which isn't working.  There are many moving parts to that but I feel like the certificate isn't set up properly, which is my first inclination as to why it could not be working.