Option 1 is the easiest. I recommend it if you're based in a location that has a local public DNS server. Here are the locations of Google's public DNS servers.
I had a similar problem. For me, it was intermittent errors with *.imgur.com and also, ironically, with *.sstatic.com, the site used to server Super User's static content. Lookups would fail for a while, then work for a while, then fail again.
If it says "Aborted" in a line then an actual DNS resolving issue could be the reason. right-click the GET-part on the left and choose "Open in new Tab". This will yield a more informative error message because embedded resources usually fail silently, resulting in missing images or CSS/JS files as in your case.
If you see your GET request for the CSS/JS files fail with Status 404, then the connected webserver could not find the requested URL. In your situation it likely means your browser was connected to an incorrect IP adress or the connection was intercepted (as in: transparent proxying by 3G providers or "clever" proxying routers) and incorrectly handled.
Easiest thing is resetting your router, which usually cleans out the DNS cache. Check that your firmware is up-to-date, and update it if it's not. Another option is getting another router.
Like me, you might have a problem with your router's DNS, with your ISP's DNS or with some interaction between the two. Here are possible solutions.
So option 2 was a bit better for me. It will mean a bit of maintenance, but I'm happy to use dig and edit /etc/hosts occasionally.
The queries that were failing were for Content Delivery Networks. That makes sense, in a way, because CDNs often return complex DNS results to optimise performance.
Open a command prompt and run "tracert imgur.com" without the quotation marks. This will tell you where your packets are getting dropped, post the output. 
So maybe my router was messing up DNS responses from ISPs servers (both proxied and direct). Or maybe the ISPs servers were failing intermittently? It was hard to tell, and I didn't bother working out which was the real problem. :)
Also, to get a more useful answer, try installing Firefox as an alternative browser and install Firebug as an add-on. It manifests itself as a "bug" icon. Visit its Network-tab and try loading the page again. Each element of the page will result in one line.
I also didn't want to want to use my ISP's DNS servers, since they were flaky when my router was involved, even for direct queries.
I'm in I'm in New Zealand, and I didn't want to go with a public DNS server in another country. Doing so would mean higher latency for me on every DNS lookup. It would also lessen one of the main benefits of CDNs. CDNs try to serve content from local servers if possible, and they do this based on the location of the DNS server. A US- or Asia-based DNS server would have lessened this benefit.
TL;DR: Set up your computer to ignore your router's DNS proxy and instead use another DNS server. Try your ISP's DNS server or use a public DNS server like Google's.
imgur.com's images generally come from i.imgur.com, and their CSS and JS come from s.imgur.com. Both are aliases to *.edgecastcdn.net—the EdgeCast.com CDN (Content Distribution Network—like a competitor for Akamai).
If you only want to use these DNS servers on your home network then create a new Location in the Network control panel.
Your router has DNS caching issues. I had an older Linksys E1000 Wireless-N router, but I've found the issue also exists with other (cheaper) models.
You might want to look into whether or not you can resolve and/or connect to the *.edgecastcdn.net hosts that i.imgur and s.imgur resolve to, or see if there are other well-known sites that use EdgeCast and see if you have the same problem with those sites.