No, you can not have licensed cars without a license, and you probably won't be able to get one regardless. Car licenses are expensive, hard to come by and fraught with extra requirements (ever wonder why you generally won't get a Ferrari in a game with destructible cars?).
The names of cars and car manufacturers are trademarked. Using a trademark without permission opens you up to lawsuits. If you want to use trademarks of car manufacturers, you should contact their marketing departments to negotiate a deal. 
When you release the base game with no trademarked content and leave it to the modding community to do so, you shift the legal responsibility to the modders. They are violating the trademarks, not you, so they should be the ones getting sued. But be careful about hosting or even endorsing mods which violate trademarks, or you might also be targeted.
If you want you can make cars that look vaguely similar and have different names, that's generally sufficient, but again. Not a lawyer, not legal advice.
That said, yes, if you or somebody from the developer team wants to use the names of the cars, the names of the car companies or the models of the cars, a license will be needed. Otherwise, you risk having to face legal problems. Never forget that when sued, just the time and resources you will have to spend in the legal struggle will be harmful no matter the result. But even worse, at the end, without the licenses, you likely will loose all the work you and your team have put a lot of effort into preparing.
Releasing a mod for your game that adds actual cars is also probably not legal, regardless of whether they are for sale or not. Even if it is legal, you'll go bankrupt before proving that in court should it come to that.
For the sake of detailing, keep in mind that car names and car manufacturer names are trademarked, while the assets representing the cars (i.e. the car models) are copyrighted. Trademarking and copyrighting are two different things: "Video Games and the law: Copyright, Trademark and Intellectual Property".
Usual disclaimer: I am not a lawyer and in this site questions about these issues have to be always taken as ideas, thoughts or experiences, never as technical advice.
Lastly, of course if modders came up with car models, then that is not necessarily a legal problem for you. I mean not necessarily, because you have also to be careful of not endorsing mods that infringe copyrights or trademarks, in order to be sure that you are safe from legal problems. Although the mods are not your responsability, if your game's website for instance holds tons of mods that are considered to be illegal due to infringing copyrights/trademarks, I doubt it won't give you trouble.