For example, the way the author approaches a proof of the formula for the area of a rectangle is very interesting and different from any other approach (admittedly, all other approaches I have seen have been "this is so, now deal with it") - he talks about intuitively, what properties area must have, then mathematically defines those properties, then uses a functional equation to solve for area, shows how unit conversion comes out of the mathematics...it's rather impressive.
For example, maybe you wish to approach creating a calculator app of some sort. Talk with your students - why is OOP efficient? Would that apply in this case? Is the program going to be small enough that a procedural program would be quicker to write and not lose much readability? What are the design requirements? Hold a Socratic-method type session, with you guiding. Do this and ask less and less pointed questions, progressing to calling on people to approach the problem as best they can. Perhaps let other people lead the Socratic questioning.
People don't know what they don't know and this applies to adults and children alike. So I like to ask something along the lines of "What do you understand about this?", or "Where were you last doing well?" This helps find a starting point. You can then recap something understood, then add only the tiniest bit of information to it and check to see if they're still following you. Keep going like this, slow steps with checks, and you will often find the problem. After that I usually find that motivation to attempt a difficult problem returns, or at least other problems reveal themselves after the first one is eliminated.
They've spent most of their time in class watching a teacher put up a problem and then explain how it is solved, assign a similar-but-not-quite problem to use a similar approach on, and maybe help struggling students with the homework. They've not often seen their teacher truly struggle with a problem at the board with them.
I think sometimes it's because they don't even know where to begin, and when you think about it, this makes sense.
Keep the material in line with what the students are supposed to be able to do. Presenting complicated problems that overshoots half the class is wasting time.
Consider an average student. (I'm going to use a lot of math examples because a. I just reread "A Mathematician's Lament" and b. I'm reading a great book called Burn Math Class that explains calculus in the best way I have ever read, and then proceeds to prove a bunch of "elementary" math stuff with it - very cool.) 
So, do something similar with your class, perhaps. Pick a problem that is at the student's level that you don't really know how to solve, and go after it - but slowly, explaining your thought process every step of the way, why you're picking the tools you're using, etc.
If you want to highlight some code of historical value don't expect the students to solve it. It probably took someone better trained and more talented than your students days, weeks, months or years to get it right.
Any lack of motivation is most likely coming from confusion or misunderstanding. It can be fatigue or personality, but the best place to start is with finding holes in the student's knowledge.
And I'm not quite talking about problem solving techniques, although I'm talking about those too. I'm talking about the process more. The book I'm reading talks about "pre-mathematics" - the stuff you do to approach the problem, the preparation before the solution comes to mind and is cleaned up and published or written on the blackboard or what have you.
Even if they are lucky enough to have seen this, the teacher is (generally, hopefully) the teacher for a reason: they know what they're doing, and thus the methods used to approach the problem can get lost in the speed. Decisions made in how to approach the problem, etc, aren't mentioned.
Or consider how the author talks about the definition of slope - he talks about how there are other possible formulas, like run/rise, or whatever, but why the particular version used was chosen. It's all explained, the process of defining and proving.