However, I actually tried switching this drive to "high performance mode" and .. it caused the TxfLogContainerXXXX handles to evaporate. So, it's true that this is the quick-removal option. However, this did not released my drive yet. Still couldn't eject it.
If your disk is set for quick removal (in drive policies) you should be able to safely unplug it without using the "safely remove" option. 
Then I have went to ComputerManagement->DriveManagement utility and I have removed any drive-letter assignements for that drive. Instantly afterwards, I was able to eject the drive.
I've always had this problem with one of my Toshiba external drives. I value that drive really high because of its built-in shock detector, what is currently very hard to find. But the cannot-remove-it-safely issue was driving me crazy.
I had the same error as Heinzi, but when I tried to solve it by changing the mode to "better performance", I noticed what the default option actually does :)
I've got any Distributed-Tracking/Windows-Search/etc services off and was still unable to safely-unplug the drive. Someone somewhere suggested that "quick removal" is the culprit, but almost all my USB drives run on it and I still can remove them safely.
I think that the "turn the drive offline" via "computer management -> drive management" might actually be the quickest solution, however I have not tried it since my random attempts helped before I've read about that.
USB Safely Remove did help, but maybe not directly when quickly clicking the drive in the main listing.  When it showed me more than LockHunter would besides the *Metadata files in the root of the drive, there was also MsMpEng.exe operating on it.
Tried all of the other answers suggestions like changing/removing the drive letter, turning it offline, but those methods did not work.
Obviously, System is not a process that I can just kill and be done with it. I've done a bit of research and this seems to be a common problem, but no solution has been found so far (except for rebooting the machine, which I'd like to avoid if possible).
Today, I've hit this question/thread on social-technet MS site. While there's a lot of noise down there, they point out a few common issues. Like the Distributed-Tracking service. It's actually hard to read through it all due to some cohones-size-flame-war that escalated at some point, but reading the topic from its end helps;)
Five years later, I actually fixed this issue by resorting to a commercial tool: USB Safely Remove, which can "force stop" a device suffering from this issue. (Before that, I used the "take offline" workaround mentioned in quetzalcoatl's answer.)
I have an external HDD which I would like to "safely remove". Unfortunately, my system (Windows 7 x64) complains that "the device is currently in use".
Note: I am not affiliated with the creators of the software, I just mention them because their tool fixed the problem for me.
Setting Removal policy to better performance from devmgmt.msc did not help for my 1TB Seagate Expansion Portable Drive. Only when i used services.msc to turn off "Crypkey License" it worked immediately.
For other drives or situations, I finally found Open Hardware Monitor seemed to have a lock on it, even when I haven't found other specific proof for that yet.  I'd rather not close the program as I have to set my fan speed every time though.
Then I tried connecting it again, reassigning the drive letter, switching it to quick-removal and it seems to work properly and still be ejectable.