If you're using distributed version control (eg Git), you can simply set up a remote repository and push to it once a day. Many companies offer this service.
Do you have more than one site? Maybe swapping tapes with another site would be a workable solution.
If you're forced into a DR situation (you're site and on-site backups are destroyed), how much data can you afford to lose, and how long will it take you to get back up and running? It may be that you don't need daily off-site backups and weekly backups would be enough, making using something like storing them at a bank, or with a company like IronMountain much less of a hassle.
I use ibackup.com and I'm relatively happy with them.  Others have used JungleDisk.  Your boss is right, you definitely need to have offsite backups.
I'd have said storing your off-site backups are your boss' house is a bad idea, it's unlikely the security at his house is as good as on your office premises which provides a massive weak link in your security. Thats before you even consider that only one person in the company has access to those off-site backups in case they're ever needed.
However, it is my boss's concern to keep the source code somewhere "safe enough" in case of multi-robbery or some natural disaster, ecc..
Just don't do what CodingHorror did, and store all the backups of a virtual image on the same hard drive as the virtual image. And especially don't trust your backup procedure to a bloke called Geoff driving in occasionally to where the data center was to change a USB drive ...
Some will also go so far as to put the repository on an external drive that is taken with them off-site. Considering you can now fit 8-16+ GB on a keyring, there's not much argument against doing this.
If you're using something like Subversion I'd recommend copying the repository to a remote location probably once a day. Even a shared hosting account will do (although VPS preferred). If you do this password-protect the backup but make sure a bunch of people know the password.
UPDATE: we currently backup on 2 dvds. One is kept in my boss's house and one is stored inside the company building.
I tried searching google for something, and I guess the best solution would be some online backup service.