The position of "your router" and the ISP router can change.  So long as you have this "T" like configuration.  This makes it so hosts on both networks naturally flow towards the "Your Router", and since "Your Router" is directly connected to the two networks, as well as the Internet, it will be able to route traffic properly between those three directions.
To the program it seems that it's connected to the Internet, although only the ISP's router is really connected. For the ISP there is only one correspondent on your IP address, and all local->Internet connections come from the same IP address - the router's, and it's really the router that's doing the connecting to the Internet.
The problem you are describing is the result of the direction of the Default Gateway.  In each case above, hosts in the 10.x.x.x network or the 192.168.1.x network will have a Default Gateway pointing to the device immediately to the left.  (The 192.168.1.x points to your Router, the 10.x.x.x points to the ISP Router).  This is correct and desired, because that is the direction that leads to the Internet.
Note:  You will probably have to set up a transient network between the two routers.  But so long as the ISP Router is NAT'ing, the same effect will be attained.
So, bringing it all together.  Hosts on the 192.168.1.x network can send packets to hosts on the 10.x.x.x network.  But when the hosts on the 10.x.x.x network try to respond, they know only to send the traffic out to the default gateway... which is precisely the opposite direction that the traffic should have gone.  That is why the problem is happening.... which brings us to solutions, three of them, in fact:
10.0.0 is not an ISP network, it's just a local network created for your use. On the Internet the router is known by another IP address which is certainly not 10.0.0. The job of the router is to convert addresses from local to Internet every time an internal program connects to the Internet, passing packets back and forth while substituting IP addresses.
If you have access to your ISP Router, you could a single Static route there, to inform the ISP Router that the 192.168.1.x network exists behind "Your router".  BUT, depending on the make/model, you may run into issues with routing back out the interface traffic arrived on.  While conceptually, this should work fine, a lot of vendors disable this behavior by default as a loop prevention strategy... which is acceptable behavior, but not for your intentions.
What this creates is a situation where a host on the 10.x network knows of only two things (from the perspective of their network connectivity, at least).
Which brings us to the third solution, and in my opinion, your best bet:  You need to re-architect your Network.  The goal is to let the default gateway naturally cause the communication to simply work. 
Typically, you would want to create a Static Route on the hosts in the 10.x.x.x network to let them know of a "third thing" that the 192.168.1.x network is towards the direction of the "Your Router".  BUT, this doesn't really scale very well if there are a lot of hosts on the 10.x network, or if you don't have access to make static routes on all of them.
with addresses of 10.0.0.x, if it has DHCP server capability. Your router can probably be configured