What comes closest to what you want, is a Type-1 hypervisor. Judging you from your question, you are going to have a hard time with just about everything save for ESXi with its web interface. I'd go for that if you want decent performance and the option of a broad variation of guest operating systems. ESXi is a bit picky for the underlying hardware though, so if that is a problem, look into Fedora w/ KVM and / or Windows 2008 with Hyper-V. Latest option is pretty expensive though, if you do not have a Windows 2008 license already.
The same is true for XEN, the difference is that with XEN you actually boot XEN as the Hypervisor which will start a virtualised instance (dom0) that is used as the management instance.
Linux KVM and XEN is to my knowledge the only free (as in libre) bare metal virtualizations available.
While it very much looks like just yet another software to use some virtual machines in reality it effectively turns the Linux kernel into a hypervisor.
A virutual machine relies on the host machine, and its OS, to provide access to the host machine's physical CPU, memory, disk drives and other peripherals.
Its not possible to run VM's with out Host as it is not possible to run process with out operating system.
In an operating system the kernel isolates different process and schedules them there should be something similar to do the scheduling and isolation in virtual environment this kernel is called Hypervisors.
KVM turns your installation of Linux into a hypervisor so that you essentially the distribution you use around your KVM enabled linux kernel isn't much more than a management interface.
Basically, there are two kinds of hypervisors. First there are the hypervisors that run on top of your operating system. These are called Type-2 hypervisors and include VMware Workstation, MS Virtual PC and VirtualBox. Then, there are the hypervisors that are an operating system (I know that is over-simplified). These are called Type-1 hypervisors and include Xen, Linux w/ KVM, VirtualIron, ESX, ESXi and MS Hyper-V. 