I had the same issue with Ubuntu 14.04 today, and it was quite obnoxious so I want to share the solution I found with the world here...
Judging from the stack output, we can see prior to the panic the most useful function the kernel was in was mount_block_root.
I was using pxelinux.0, NFS for the root filesystem, and TFTP for serving up the kernel image and initramfs. As mentioned above by @MatthewIfe, looking at the stack backtrace and functions being called clearly indicates this issue was occurring in a block device related function, and mount_nfs_root was never being called.
Reading further up the code slightly indicates it was unable to open the block device specified -- but without a crash dump its not possible to tell why from the information. So its probably:-
I.E mount_block_root+0x225 means (I was at "mount_block_root" plus 549 bytes (the hexadecimal translation).
But I saw no record in the log of initrd being pulled down. So I decided to test and see if my APPEND line was working at all. So I added a "panic=10", again as in the post linked. And it seemed to not be working. So none of my kernel config line directives were being used! On a hunch I decided to do two things -- simplify my file to match the post
So I turned to the TFTP logs, as indicated by the author of this post, and noted my configuration file was named as:
And voilà -- the initrd gets pulled down, no more kernel panic, and NFS is mounted as the root filesystem properly using the default/generic kernel and initramfs. I'm sure I can change the label back, etc. I think the actual issue was with the naming of the configuration file and what pxelinux.0 expects.
From here we can tell exactly where we were at the point of the crash. NOTE my kernel is not your kernel, so the offsets are probably off. Based off of the likelihood that both these kernels are nearly the same, I'll hedge a bet that the real panic actually occurs at line 419, not line 422 (as was suggested).
So, overall based off of the information in the question I assume you have omitted something or made a typo.
Some of the output is missing, since it scrolled off the screen already, but it's possible to see that the kernel crashed in mount_root(). This means that it had a problem with mounting whatever you passed as the root filesystem. Check to ensure that you have passed the correct parameters to the kernel to boot from whatever media it is supposed to be booting from.
In order to determine where we failed, we need to feed in the function name plus an offset into GDB. This is done by de-referencing the address to the function, plus the offset. The stack trace supplies the offset as the first value after the function.
Finally, we tell GDB to print the source code of that area. In my Linux system, this results in the following
I've made it. The problem turned out to be very simple. I gave to PXE client a 3.13.0-30 kernel. But I was running mkinitramfs on a machine with a 3.13.0-24 kernel.
Following on from the link in you're reference, it suggests you are trying to mount with NFS as the root, in which case you should never end up landing in this function at all. In which case: