You might give chakra project a look, essetially it's archlinux with kdemod installed by default with a graphical installer. After install it is considered a normal arch install using default repositories
I can easily set up an Arch laptop with all the programs I need and configured to my liking in under 20 minutes from a blank drive. (obviously this depends on the speed of your network connection.)
It can also be helpful to try out the installation in a Virtual Machine, like for example VirtualBox, first. That is a good possibility to get a feeling for the procedure, without the risk of destroying anything. Howtos and google can be used in parallel, too, if using this method.
Once you have your machine set up the way you like, put your config and dotfiles up on github, along with a copy of your installed packages. Put your files on Dropbox or Aerofs and you can get from a blank disk to Getting Stuff Done in the time it takes to watch a sitcom.
You'll have to understand what the installer requires of you to install successfully, and as already mentioned, this will mean reading The Beginner's Guide.
Arch is much cooler then other Distros I only install what I need.  Be sure to know how to get into X in your virtualbox arch installation.And also which Window Manager or Desktop you need. Archlinux WiKi is always there to help novice users.
Two hours is a reasonable time for an Arch Linux installation. It is not hard to install, but Arch is a distro that eschews easy-do-everything-install in favor of a only-install-what-you-need streamlined installation.
I tried to install Arch on my Usb drive but eversince I installed I couldn't boot from it. So I tried to install Archlinux on VirtualBox its safer and easier way to know how to install Arch, I mean if you are stuck somewhere  you can always minimise the VirtualBox window and search for solution on the host PC. I wrote down all commands needed to install Arch and how to get into X etc., etc., you will love the Experience !! 