My corporation will probably never switch to IPv6 internally. It would require a fundamental shift in policy so massive I can't honestly conceive how it could come about. A lot of people would have to get killed, and a lot of inexplicable hiring choices would have to be made. Likewise, any attempt by individual business units to switch to IPv6 on their LANs would be squashed with prejudice by the corporate networking overlords based on interoperability and maintainablity concerns (we allow a lot of leeway locally, but not that much.)
That is why at least one class of organization would deploy IPv6 internally: because they're already using non-RFC1918 IPv4 internally.
Because of this, they were actively planning to use IPv6 internally as well. There were some hardware issues still to work out, the edge switches weren't supporting v6 well enough, but the core was ready. The idea was that getting v6 support at the publicly visible end (okay, the publicly responsive end) of the network would involve 70% of the work to deploy it to everyone, may as well do the extra 30% and go end-to-end with it. 
My old job, at a large University, would use an IPv6 allocation internally. They were assigned an IPv4 /16 back in the day and even today is passing out IPv4 addresses to nearly every internal client. The RFC1918 networks were restricted to the telecom-only network and certain specialized usages (the PCI standards required RFC1918 usage until October 2010).
Having lived with a public IP allocation for so long, our people were very aware of the adage: "just because it is public, does not mean it is reachable." As Chris S said, routeable does not imply reachable. 
IPv4 was intended that every device be directly on the Internet...until we ran out of address space. Then, we've spent the last 20 years locking it all down. Now, IPv6 by design wants to, once again, place every device directly on the Internet... the outcome will be the same.  I totally agree that NAT is one layer of security that is not going to be abandoned without an equally effective, or better, replacement.
The only good reason to go IPv6 internally is to be ready when the world switches to IPv6, and I think that's a pretty bad reason, given the rate of adoption. Since most internal IPs won't be externally reachable, it wouldn't be a big deal to translate the rest.
Chris S concepts on NAT are way wrong; one of the best features of NAT besides the artificial expansion of IPv4 schema is SECURITY. NAT is the layer that hides the real IP of a host that if directly connected to Internet can be the target of all the imaginable attacks. Happily talking about getting rid of NAT without encouraging extra security measures is just plain ignorance on the topic.