Trunk ports are typically used in switch to switch or switch to router links or between ports that require multiple VLANs.  They are used to transmit packets from multiple VLANs between gear usually and will add 802.1q tags to the traffic to differentiate between VLANs.  By default a trunk port will pass traffic for all VLANs but you can set allowed VLANs to further lock it down.
REFERENCES: http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/switches/lan/catalyst3550/software/release/12.1_19_ea1/configuration/guide/swvlan.pdf
First let me state that I'm over simplifying this a lot and I'm also making assumptions we are talking about Cisco switches and not necessarily some of the routers or advanced ways of handling traffic.
I am reading some wikipedia articles and RFC 5517, studying VLANs, and I don't recognize the difference between a trunk port and a tagged port.  
Other vendors besides Cisco will let you tag "access ports", for instance Extreme doesn't even call them trunk/access, you start with an untagged port and tag it with multiple VLANs as necessary.
No, An access port is not tagged. A vlan tag indentifier is only added to the frame when it traverses a Trunk port, simple as that. the port configuration of "access vlan 20" for example, is simply telling the switch which vlan it belongs too.
a trunk port is required to forward multiple vlans between switches. each ethernet frame is tagged with vlan membership. The trunk port is configured with 802.1q encapsulation to carry the vlan membership in an Ethernet frame.
From what the material I am reading says, a tagged port is used to allow a host to be seen from different VLANs. So for example if the port 1 is tagged on "vlan 1", and also tagged on "vlan 2", it can send level 2 packets to every host in both VLANs.  
The definition of trunk port that I've found is "a port in which travel packets containing the VLAN TAG". The VLAN TAG contains the VLAN ID, so from what I've understood a trunk port must necessarily be a tagged port, but may a switch have a port which is tagged, but not a trunk port? If yes, what's the difference?  
"a tagged port is used to allow a host to be seen from different VLANs" - no/not necessarily, depends on lots of factors.
This pic might help since there are other ways to do things like a dynamic access port or voice port nowadays: