As for risks other than security...  Keys are put there to be referenced.  A good server shouldn't break down if one table is referenced by all the others, although in "I Wrote My Own SQL Server All In Javascript" (which I hope is imaginary) something could go wrong.  Certainly if one key column is being referenced heavily by relationships and queries, then its specification and its indexing must be considered carefully.  For instance, Microsoft SQL allows an index on columns A and B to operate as a separate copy of the table data, and to have columns C, D, and E included in the doppelganger table as well (the INCLUDE keyword).  And meanwhile another index is also on keys A and B with columns F and G included too.  If that represents the two queries that you make most often, that's a design to consider.
Also, from experience, if your much-referenced data key needs to be changed, in all the tables, while keeping the rest of the data the same, that's vastly inconvenient.  For instance if it's the customer's telephone number (say this is the telephone company database), then you have to change the customer's number after nuisance calls.  Well, this is a reason to not use that kind of number as a key throughout the database - even though it's so convenient to look up data in a query on table PDQOK using that handy value.  Or, worse, that customer quits - then, you issue their number to somebody else...
Now having all the relevant data referenced in your central table could pose a heightened security risk from your teacher's perspective, but that is very far fetched.
What is a risk - of a kind - I believe, is that if you overlook the REFERENCES permission on an object when denying an account direct access to the object, REFERENCES can be used to read data that someone wasn't supposed to be able to read - from the referenced key column, at least.  And the key column might be a bank account number or an SSN.  At least, you could exploit it to find whether data value ABCDEF is or isn't in the table.  Oracle's documentation says "grant privileges conservatively", which means don't grant them at all, ideally deny them explicitly.  Especially keep them away from a 'public' or 'guest' account that doesn't specifically need to have a permission on your database.
This stretches the bounds of credibility.  The only thing I can think of is that by deliberately causing referential integrity errors the attacker is able to harvest the error messages and derive information the underlying schema.
Now you could carry on and define your table data as assets and a general risk as a security risk, because your assets contains sensitive data, which leaves you with:
On a high-standard server (I use Microsoft SQL Server) this may be mitigated where Table A is referenced by Table B, and also by Tables C to Z, -but- it's the other tables themselves that have the right to look up a foreign key in Table A, it isn't a right of the user.  Unless the user can update data in Table M, which allows them once again to probe the values of data held in Table A.
So in a really far-fetched sense a Threat combined with a Vulnerability could lead to a breach of data in your Table_Data. And as a result you have a Security Risk.