Most printer drivers have an option as circled in the picture below. Sadly it never seems to be in the same place. Each manufacturer does it differently. 
This is very basic but gets round the problem quickly and easily - I copy the page 4 times so the document contains 4 pages and then it works. 
If you have a document (say 6 pages long) and you select the option to print 4 pages per sheet of paper the result will look like this:
The answer do how do I get Windows to actually print multiple pages per sheet? is easy: Set it in the printer driver. (n your example, use printer properties
convert the word file to pdf file by going on the file tab and then going on the export, then change file to pdf, once finish go on google and type in pdf to jpeg online converter, convert file converted file should be in downloads or wherever you put it then right click on converted file, then go to print it should come up with a list of different types of prints you want, go to the 4 in 1 printout and underneath your picture or file u want printed out click the desired amount of copies, then uaa-laaa :)
How you get it set specifically in office without using the printer driver is an other question. But this should work, even from ms office.
i had a lot of difficulty figuring this out, i will continue to play with it to see if i can get more than 4 on the page
Since you have a single page document and selected four print jobs (or 4 copies) it will print 4 pages. With only enough data to fill the first quarter of a page that will result in 4 mostly empty pages.
Note the blank space in the second and forth page. It does this because page 2 would be rather inconvenient if it did this:
If you print this document twice, either by selecting 2 copies of simply by repeating the the print action the result will be like this:
(then you go back to the original print page in word) and you keep it on one page per sheet, select custom print and then put 1,1,1,1 if you want that first page (i had 2 pages, 1 for the front & 1 for the back)
i made one large, and wanted 4 small on one page. click print, then under your printer, click on printer properties. that is where i selected page layout, and click on multi-page. it will only give you up to 4. 