Finally, and the real clincher, is that your admins may be utterly powerless to do anything here.  They may be in a position where they have a strict directive from on-high, and they may have already pleaded the case and failed.  So don't go too hard on them.
Lastly... many solutions (SmoothWall and Websense included) allow for "soft block" or "warn" mode. This is good for tech staff - it pops up a block page saying "We'd rather you didn't visit this site, it is probably in violation of the AUP" but allows the user to click through. This is logged, so a user abusing the system can be spotted. 
For example, you cited that you can't download Fx - that is blocked where I work as well due to the fact that the web-based software used in the company is only certified by the vendor for use in IE. Stupid? yup. Sucks? certainly. But that's what the vendor has done, and by using anything other than what they have "certified" we can be denied support even if it is blindingly obvious that that component isn't what is causing the problem. We (and possibly you) are being held technologically hostage. Or we'd at least be using IE8 instead of IE6...
Secondly... cut the IT some slack. I work at SmoothWall, and the hardest web content filtering problems we hit when people use our filter is looking after technical staff. It is a tough thing to balance, especially (and no offence intended here) as tech staff often have a better opinion of their honesty/integrity than non-tech staff. Maybe this is because they tend to be skilled workers.
First off... hang on. You say this is "recent" - all such systems take a while to bed in, and folk to get their usual sites correctly categorized. Give it a month.
It's not the system it's the configuration.  Replacing websense with a different web content filter system is not going to resolve all your issues if it's not configured properly.
You would think you could trust people to act like adults, but as a recent event where I work has shown, that just isn't the case.
It's also worth bearing in mind that the Websense site database is provided externally, and that your admins have no control over the site categorisation in it, aside from the ability to override it for specific named sites.  Websense have been known to make mistakes in the past, and at least some of the frustration you're experiencing may be nothing more than an honest accident.
With rational conversation and evidence, you may well be able to get them to loosen things up for you.
Websense isn't an "all or nothing" solution, there are very granular levels of policy which can be set to apply to different groups and users.  When you make your case (in as friendly and civil a manner as possible, remember), you will be wanting to request an access policy for yourself and other developers that does block genuinely objectionable material but that leaves access open to technical sites and software downloads.
Where I work we only block adult material.  And you would be surprised how many false positives that generates.  I think sometimes it tags any web traffic coming from a particular IP or subnet as pornography.  Hosts that live on shared hosting accounts tend to get blocked as well as blogs from time to time.  We just have an system where an employee can put in a support ticket to get a particular url white listed.
1- keep a log of what (specifically) you are doing that is getting blocked or causing you interruption or workaround.  
You might want to have a chat with the individual/group responsible as there may be reasons why those are blocked. 
One note .. you need to have clean hands. If your issues are around chat, Twitter, BitTorrent, or personal stuff, get over it.  You might be able (with embellishment) to justify why you need to be able to IM, because developers are special, but the admins won't budge on that sort of stuff.  These restrictions and filtering programs came about for a reason, most admins hate them, and most would much rather set them to filter porn only and be done with it.  But the business reality doesn't allow that.
That aside, while I can't speak for large organizations, I have set up some small networks for the local fire departments, and I have them using OpenDNS. The admin can set the filtering options, and it can be tweaked as needed. They have a process in place for getting exceptions to sites that shouldn't be blocked but are. You may want to see if that is an option too.
I think you're taking the wrong approach.  You really need to sit down and talk (in as friendly and civil a manner as possible) to your administrators about this.  If you have a clear business case for downloading Firefox or other software, or accessing technical sites that would be blocked for the general user populace, then something needs to be done about the policy implemented (which I suspect may be one of the out-of-the-box defaults from the sound of it).
2- After a week or so, take this log to whoever administers the system, and show them how the restrictions are causing you trouble and slowing you down. 
Websense is a good program ...  I suspect the issues you are attributable to having related to how websense is configured rather than to problems with websense.  More candidly .. if the current admins implemented something else (like Astaro), they would configure it with similar restrictions. 