Then, since you're still on Ex2003, use an Event Sink to notify his "real" account when a message arrives in his "external" mailbox.  (Of course, it's easy to throw out the phrase Event Sink, I'd be lost if I had to set one up.)
Our CEO has requested a second mailbox for his personal email.  His primary mailbox is visible to his assistant but he belongs to an external organization that requires that only he can see email among its members.  He also wants the second mailbox to be associated with our corporate domain (i.e. not a gmail account).  Naturally he also has a BlackBerry with which he would like to read mail send to both mailboxes.
Feel free to flick me an email if you need help.  BTW, for the right price I'll entertain job offers.
It's cumbersome, but I think your best bet is the second idea you described: set him up with alternate profiles, he can look at one or the other mailbox but not both simultaneously.
So it looks grim and I haven't even tackled the BES config.  Creating alternate profiles is possible but not sure how to alert user that he has mail in secondary mailbox.  OWA is another possibility but again not sure how to alert user to check secondary mailbox with OWA.
Or maybe you could convince him to rely on his Blackberry to tell him when he has new mail on the external account?
I have put a delivery restriction on the second mailbox for all internal users so at least they get a message if they inadvertently send mail to his secondary mailbox, which is similarly named.  I don't see a rule that allows me to divert the mail stored in the Sent folder of the primary account.
If this was exchange 2007 or better, I'd use ad rms and a transport rule to only allow access the the CEO and just add another alias.  I know you can use RMS on 2003 but I don't know if you can auto apply it like you can with 2007+.
$user = [System.DirectoryServices.AccountManagement.UserPrincipal]::FindByIdentity($ct,"____namehere____")
My solution so far has been to create a second AD account with its own mailbox.  I granted Send As permission (not Send on Behalf) to his primary AD account.  I also gave his primary account full access to the second mailbox and added the second mailbox to his Outlook profile as an additional mailbox and made the From field visible.