Is there any way to define a particular User-Agent for a particular web site in either Firefox or Chrome?
Now, to get per-site UA string, one could install UAControl plus User-Agent JS Fixer. The first add-on modifies the User-Agent request header per site, but not the navigator.userAgent string that is often used for UA-sniffing. The second add-on complements the first add-on by overriding navigator.userAgent.
You can use an addon like IE-tab, which will actually use IE DLLs from within Firefox, so the page will not only think you are using IE but it will render the same.  It can be set to automatically apply when you visit specific pages, so that you get Firefox rendering on everything except the sites that require IE.  
 IE Tab Features: FF 4+ support, IE 7-9 compatibility modes, old IE Tab settings import. IE Tab supports ICBC and alipay  
Until Firefox 25, one could set general.useragent.override.[domain] to a custom UA string. Unfortunately, this feature was removed in Firefox 25.
An enhanced version of IE Tab with Adblock Plus in IE supported. It also allows you import settings from IE Tab and synchronize cookies between IE and Firefox. 
https://addons.mozilla.org/sv-SE/firefox/addon/user-agent-string-switcher//firefox/addon/user-agent-string-switcher/
There are many extensions you can use which can work by auto detecting the IE setting for the website on FF.  
Since I already had Greasemonkey installed, and the site I'm targetting only uses client-side User-Agent sniffing, I decided to write a small user script to change navigator.userAgent for this particular site:
I needed to switch user agent to fix low resolution images in Firefox on Android. I found a lot of  dead links to agent switchers, but this one worked in Firefox - even on Android:
I have to use a particular web site for work, but this web site checks to see whether I'm using Internet Explorer and, if not, won't allow me to log in.  I can switch my User-Agent header using the User Agent Switcher Firefox plugin and the web site works fine, but I really don't want to switch the header every time I go to the site and also don't want my User-Agent header to perpetually say I'm using IE.