I am a little confused as to what is the protocol that Ansible uses for communication between  Controller node and Managed Remote nodes.
Kindly Excuse me if this question sounded silly, nevertheless any elaborate response would be much appreciated.
This protocol became very popular very quickly and before a formal specification allowing for FTP over SSH was released, users of the SSH protocol had implemented a version of BSDs rcp (remote copy) over SSH. This protocol was extremely limited however, which led to a revision in SSH - SSH2 which added an SSH File Transfer Protocol (not to be confused with FTP over SSH, another SFTP) because, according to wikipedia:
Since the FTP protocol, defined in RFC 1738 in 1985 is completely encrypted and packet sniffers are able to dumping plaintext passwords from this protocol, Some thought that it would be a good idea to secure this protocol by implementing FTP over an SSL connection. In 1997 a mechanism for doing that was released in RFC 2228 which often was referred to as SFTP.
Side note: SSH was released by Tatu Ylönen of the Helsinki University of Technology in 1995. As Linus Torvalds released Linux in 1991 as a student at the University of Helsinki until 1996, it was kismet that SSH would be so popular and widely used in Linux.
SSH and SFTP and SCP could be regarded as completely different protocols depending on which SFTP you are referring to and which version of the SSH protocol you are referring to. Yet, the command for actually doing a file transfer remained "scp" even after the SFTP and SSH-2 protocol was developed. If one is referring to SSH-2 however, these could arguably all be considered the same protocol.
This comes mainly from the fact, that RFC 913 defines one SFTP protocol, the "Simple File Transfer Protocol" which offers no encryption and went largely unadopted, with users favoring TFTP and FTP depending on their needed application. 
And In fact, the IETF set up a working group to codify a formal standard for SSH-2 (released as RFC 4251) but
SFTP is used to securely transfer files and SCP is for secure copy. This may be over SSH connection, but why would ansible use SFTP or SCP?
Meanwhile, a similar security issue was occurring around the telnet protocol - passwords and sensitive information were unencrypted and subject to sniffing. In response, SSH-1 was released in 1995 which provided an encrypted equivelent to telnet for use over network connections.
"On the managed nodes, you need a way to communicate, which is normally ssh. By default this uses sftp. If that’s not available, you can switch to scp in ansible.cfg"
This is a great question as some of the terminology can be very confusing - particularly surrounding the (unfortunate) use of "SFTP" to describe multiple similar technologies.