Anyway, you mentioned that you recently moved. Presumably the system was jarred somewhat in the process. Try re-seating the CPU. In fact, take this opportunity to re-seat everything, making sure to clean all connectors (specifically if the system has been in use for a year or two). You can clean the patinas off with a soft, rubber eraser or an alcohol dipped cotton swab. Make sure to clean and re-seat the cables as well.
Having had this happen to me recently - if the fans turn but there's no beeps even when you remove all the memory modules then it's the motherboard that dead.
Dude, is it possible that your motherboard is grounding to the case? Did you install those little standoff studs?
Finally, even if it doesn’t seem to work, try coming back to it later since sometimes a problem is of the worst variety: not just intermittent, but occurs once out of nowhere, then disappears without a trace. While they are debugging-ly terrifying, they are also a relief once they are gone and haven’t come back in months. ;)
It certainly does seem like the motherboard is having difficulty, but don’t chuck it out just yet. (My motherboard is working just fine because I have a hunk of wood jammed in behind it to address the broken lead in one of the internal layers, I am using my mouse/keyboard in USB mode because the PS2 connectors have cold-joints, and I have a piece of plastic bowing the board to keep the RAM modules correctly connected.)
Just plainly by the fact that you've tried everything else, try taking it to a friends house (that has a computer that runs at their house) and try running your compute at their house and see if it works.  
Remove all devices and add-on cards then after about 20 minutes plug in just the keyboard, monitor to onboard video and the power.
But yea, if your computer works at a different house, then it is definitely something to do with the wiring of your apartment and you should have a qualified electrician(read: not apartment staff) come look at the wiring. 
If this was me, I would say my next steps would be to unplug the power then remove the battery on the motherboard.
If you still see nothing, double check that there is no conductive junk touching any jumpers - but at this stage, If you haven't even heard any beeps (working or non working ones, it isn't looking very good for the board and I would probably say it is dead.
Judging from that you've done everything to locate the problem including replacing the motherboard, and it still doesn't work, I'm going to venture to say that your new apartment may have very serious wiring problems. Maybe the grounds aren't actually grounded or it is reversed polarity, or both! 