Memory, Available MBytes- this measures how much RAM is available to satisfy demands for virtual memory (either new allocations, or for restoring a page from the pagefile).
http://blogs.msdn.com/carloc/archive/2007/09/14/something-you-need-to-know-before-start-debugging.aspx
Sorry to just paste some links - but we've been using some techniques to find memory leaks, using logparser and powershell, so I'll share.  
We have Oracle Application Servers servers on Windoze a while back that needed to be rebooted twice daily. We kicked out the users at lunch time, and in the middle of the night every day. That was a few years back, with supposedly stable productions code from Oracle.
Memory, Pages/Sec (this is not an necessarily an indicator of low memory, although everyone seems to assume it does)
http://blogs.msdn.com/debuggingtoolbox/archive/2008/08/22/powershell-script-chart-and-statistics-from-top-20-objects-leaking.aspx
JP, I believe your comment that this is an automated build / unit test server that is running less than stable code says it all. My guess is that this server needs to be rebooted frequently because of the unstable code running on it probably has memory leaks that are giving you the symptoms you are seeing. Memory leaks are not going to get listed on any of the process trees of running processes as they are memory that is grabbed by processes that no longer exist, and are still allocated, even though the process associated with them are long gone.
How long has that server been running since the last reboot? It's an unfortunate fact of life that Windows has memory leaks. i.e. Memory that is allocated does not always get released back to the system. The symptoms are exactly what you are seeing. If you don't already do it I would suggest rebooting at least once a week. Many data centers reboot Windows every day, as doing so greatly cuts down on support calls. Of course that's a lot easier to do when you use clusters because there's no down time.
Get a frequent maintenance window to allow you to automagically reboot this machine, perhaps nightly, a couple times a week, or weekly depending upon the speed at which this behavior starts to exhibit performance issues.
The priciple tool for helping to diagnose this is perfmon.  The counters I'd look at (to begin with) are: 
Memory, Pages Output/Sec how many virtual memory pages were written to the pagefile to free RAM page frames for other purposes each second