I'm interested in getting into the gaming industry, but i'm unsure as to whether which degree would help me the most. I also do not have any prior programming knowledge(apart from some basic html). So, do you guys have any opinion on which degree i should pick? please don't mention anything about game development or games programming degrees. You may also compare the 2 degrees with Computer Science degree.
It does not matter which degree you pick between Computer Science and Software Engineering if you want to be a game programmer. Like Orin MacGregor and dreta said, Computer Engineering is not so much focused on programming so if programming is your thing, the latter would be a poor choice.
take a look here http://computingcareers.acm.org/ at these degrees: http://computingcareers.acm.org/?page_id=6. see what this one says: http://computingcareers.acm.org/?page_id=12
Where I went to school (Carleton University), there was a specific game design stream of the Computer Science degree. While taking a specialized Computer Science degree like that would most likely not confer any significant advantage in the job market, it does put the student in an environment with like-minded people and professors who have valuable contacts in the industry. 
However, if you have skills and passion, you could make it in the gaming industry with either degree. As a general rule, don't rely on your degree to teach you everything you'll need to make it in the industry you`re interested in. Identify entry level positions in the gaming industry and what skillset that job requires. Create a plan to develop that skillset (this will typically take more than just completing your degree courses and could include independent learning or projects).
Software Engineering would be the more relevant degree as a Computer Engineering degree is primarily focused on hardware.  
What does matter, is practice, if you want to be a game programmer, start programming today, learn programming, practice programming. Programming is a language, you cannot master a language in school, you learn a language by using it. HTML is not a programming language if I recall correctly, it is a type of document(does not involve variable declaration, conditionals, loops, function calls and such things) If you want to be a game programmer, I would suggest you start learning and programming games at the present. When you get to school, you will be thankful that you did for any programming assignment given to you in classes for your academic degree will benefit from programming experience.