The thing of most interest to me is that the system that correctly hides the partitions isn't using any of the three mechanisms I know about.  So, how can I find out what mechanism it's using to flag those partitions as not to be shown to the end user?
Does anyone have any idea what else I should look for on Minbar to find out how it's managing to hide those partitions, so I can make Vorlon behave the same?
I also know of a "hide drive letter" key called NoDrives in the Windows Registry.  That works.  But there are occasions when I do have to change drive letters and this solution leaves me vulnerable to having the wrong partition become invisible if the drive letters should ever change.
I'm aware of two different "hide partition" flags on the system, one in the partition table and one accessible from Windows' Group Policy Editor.  Unfortunately, neither of the "hide partition" flags seems to be the right flag.  Even though the additional partitions are not visible on Minbar, neither of those flags is set on Minbar.  And on Vorlon, I've tried setting each of those flags, but Windows Explorer insists on displaying those partitions anyway.
Also, since the the partitions are invisible in Minbar's Windows Explorer even though the NoDrives key is not in Minbar's Registry, there must be some other way to configure a partition to be invisible.  But I've been unable to find out what it is.
Having those three additional partitions visible when booted into Windows leaves them vulnerable to changes by a naive user.  I'd like to make them invisible on Vorlon, but I can't figure out what makes them invisible on Minbar.
I'm aware of three possible ways of hiding a partition from Windows.  Two of them don't seem to work, and the one that does work depends on me never changing the drive letter assignments, which is not a safe assumption.
I have two Dell Inspiron 6400 laptops.  Both were ordered on the same date as each other, and were shipped on the same date as each other.  Both are running Windows XP.  They were supposed to have been configured identically by Dell.  But on one laptop, Windows Explorer has always displayed certain disk partitions that should not be visible to the end user.  On the other one Explorer does not display those partitions, even though they exist on the disk.