I find that the my most important question is not "what could an attacker do against my system?" but instead "What are most attackers doing right now against people running systems like mine?" 
Knowledge of your environment is the first step to protecting it: Knowing the systems, learning about the languages and OS version used, knowing how the servers interact, and protective controls already in place, understanding what kind of organization you're trying to protect.
You will know how to defend them better when you gain a deep understanding on how they work, not necessarily how to attack them.
For example, if you spend a lot of time researching and studying the Apache code base, and all the options it provides you will be able to defend and harden it well. With this knowledge, you will also be able to attack it too (maybe you will even find bugs in there).
On that same line of thought, knowing how your systems work will allow you to "think like a hacker" and try to think of the most common vulnerabilities.
If you want to do passive security, as in protect yourself from what you know and if a problem comes, you fix it, you don't need the hacker mindset.
Knowing how your car works, allows you to better diagnose your problem and either fix it yourself or take it to the shop.  Once you take it to the shop you have a pretty good idea if the mechanic is lying to you or telling you something that sounds reasonable.
But there is a danger, once you've seen all the attacks that come out of BH/defcon every year, you can become over focused on the cool new attacks and totally miss other critical basics.  eg. You run around and disabled BIOS based virtualization because you read all about Blue Pill rootkits, but the systems aren't patched or screened by a firewall and they still get owned by a drive by download.
Looking around your home at all the doors and windows and "thinking like a thief" allows you to better defend your home from a break in by taking appropriate measures such as security lights, trimming large bushes and shrubs, possibly even setting up security cameras.
As for the specifics of your question, yes you will see your assets with another point of view, discovering consequences of previous decisions and configurations and their impact.
I think it's important to know how anything you use works and know its weak points.  It boggles my mind how many "security auditors" are out there who have never configured a server in their life, yet they are the ones coming into big companies and performing audits and telling people whats right and wrong, yet they have no experience hands on with anything.
If you want to do active security, as in protection AND prevention, you want to be 2 steps ahead of hackers...in which case the dual mindset is necessary.  However..in the industry, it isn't always easy to justify the time dedicated to security.  It's up to the bosses to see if they want to invest or not in this prevention, but they have to understand the added value to properly analyze if it's worth it or not.
**don't fall prey to the thinking that just because you can run a few shell scripts or run Metasploit that you know how the system works...*
Once you have that knowledge, attack techniques are key because they give you the ability to audit these systems both in production and before they get there, and help expose the assumptions about how your systems are run.  Assumption: Our firewall is working fine.  Reality: nmap just returned a list of systems that have vulnerable ports exposed to the internet, lets take a closer look at our firewall rules.