This solution is more secure, and work without any vpn client installed on the vendor computer. It just need a browser that support SSL and Java or DirectX
If you have a firewall and only allow your vendor IP to connect to the RDP port it could be Ok but if you leave it open from any IP it's dangerous if there is a security problem a day on RDP.
Our policy does not allow direct access to the infrastructure from outside of the data centre for administration except from an approved VPN connection and then virtual desktop there on to the servers.
I have a client who is insisting that they have to let their third party vendor support access to there server directly from the internet via RDP.
I have also done implementations where TS-Gateway access users are a separate account from those that have access to the internal servers. With a much higher password expiration and lockout on the TS-Gateway accounts. This provides one more layer for those paranoid about direct pass through authorization. It also works well for groups with specific business policy regarding DMZ systems being a member of an internal domain. 
However in your case assuming your external vendor agrees to use a 6.1 compliant RDP client and you take care in your setting up of a proper TS-Gateway server there should be little reason why the request should pose a threat. 
My biggest problem (as with others) with TS-Gateway thus far is it's lack of support for two-factor auth options for the initial gateway connection. The second biggest being the lack of client support for TS-Gateway. 
Most people that have a problem with allowing RDP directly from the internet have a specific set of concerns around the idea that intruders are directly querying your directory / SAM for authentication. Without proper auditing this often goes un-noticed. Once they've successfully obtained a single logon pair they have uninhibited access to your environment. Microsoft's response to this came with Windows 2008 in the form of TS-Gateway. TS-Gateway services create a tunnel point not all that dissimilar to establishing an SSL VPN tunnel. The TS-Gateway service while it still is sharing the same directory or SAM for authentication provides a separate set of authorization rules that didn't exist before. Both user and computer level rules can be set to control what resources you have available to you once authenticated to the TS-Gateway. So 1 you don't have to set up external dns name mappings to all of your internal servers and 2 you can restrict specific users (groups of users) to specific systems.
I am now in the situation where I must give good reasons why it is dangerous to use RDP over the public internet.
I recommand to use a VPN Gateway like an Cisco ASA with an WEB SSL VPN access. The Web portal then allow to forward port to remote server, or even better you can run an RDP applet (directx or java) on the portal.