I have a dell inspirion 8500 laptop which annoys me with its wandering pointer...by shutting down the computer and restarting it ( from 4-6 times ) I have finally overcome the problem. I found a program which claims it can fix this ( SparkTrust ) but it's not free. Looking for the freebie ...but until that happens, the "close it down and restart" patient and stubborn approach DOES work...eventually (maybe just never turn the computer off?)
In Dell Latitude E6400, the following fix was found. Problem was very bad, cursor pulled off to side even in the system bios.  We still have no fix for that part. Once windows starts, use keyboard navigations. There is in the Control Panel a Mouse item, choose that, wander through settings until you get to the thing where you can disable the track STICK.
I had the same problem omn dozens of Dell lattitude C series laptops. Usually I could fix it by changing the mouse settings in the BIOS. I did not matter what the setting where, just switching them to the alternate setting would work.  A few days later the problem would return and the setting would be reversed.
Also, in Win 7 mouse settings, I found an option to use software to turn off touchpad while mouse is installed.  That helps quite a bit, inserting the use mouse brings up a warning.
As soon as I unplugged the charger and the laptop ran off of battery power, insto presto, no more crazy or unresponsive track pad. Weird huh?  Try this first. 
In this system, we sometimes could get a USB mouse to work, so we could use the machine, but that required a BIOS setting that disabled the touchpad while USB mouse was installed.  You may try that in order to start windows and then change your mouse settings.  However, once you disable that stupid track stick, then you can turn on touchpad.
I got no satisfaction from dell on this. THey did replace the touchpad in the end of the warranty period, but trouble with drift began after that, and their answer was "too late for you". Too bad.  Will buy Mac or Sony or other hardware next time.
I had the same problem with my Dell XPS laptop. Very frustrating. While I was in my mouse settings trying various things, I decided to change my pointer cursor to the large one, and miraculously, no more jumping around. Don't know if this is the fix or just a coincidence, but this seems to be the solution. Give it a try.
I had a similar problem with a Dell Inspiron e1505.  I had a replacement charger for the laptop, but apparently it caused some interference and is on its way to a recycler.  