A device like the one reviewed here: http://www.wegotserved.com/2008/09/21/sans-digital-tr4m-b-4-bay-sata-das-enclosure-review/ would do for expansion on the eSata port and you can probably find similar devices for USB.  With the external ports provided, you're looking at about 32TB of external expansion available on the HP from the 3 USBs and 1 eSata port.
I don't recommend a custom built fulltower solution, even though that might be cheaper you will get issues with cooling, power, noise and whatnot. A few drives failed due to overheating or power spikes and you are soon wasting more money than you think. 
You can also add drives to a RAID array with those professional RAID controllers. So my advice is to start with one of these and 8 drives, set up as a RAID6 array, that will provide you about 5.5 TB of effective space. Then grow as you go.
Well this is a LITTLE bigger than what you want, but the design/architecture, on the hardware side would be close to what you need. Finding a 20 drive, or even a 15 drive case is gonna be tricky though
Keep in mind that agreggating 20 drives mean you're having 20 times more chance of a catastrophic failure, so RAID-5 or RAID-6 really is mandatory. 
Keep in mind that mixing different drives (even of the same brand) may cause problems and kill performance.
Yes, there definitely have real reasons why storage enclosures, enterprise drives and RAID controllers are expensive. So be prepared to spend some serious money if you don't want to be riddled with troubles.
Last but not least, the "desktop drives" have serious vibration interaction when put together in large stacks. Either use the more expensive "enterprise" drives, or use less bigger drives ( 8 x 2TB for instance).
I have a 4TB server that is primarily doing EXACTLY what he's talking about - serving huge media files up to a Media center PC (and a couple of XBox 360s).
File copying - poor man's RAID.  Makes sure that there are redundant copies of each file so that no single drive going south will result in the loss of any files.
If 20TB is his 'sweet spot', then one HP's WHS servers gives him room for 7TB internal (one 1TB that comes with it and the remaining 3 drawers can be filled with 2TB drives), with an eSata that can be used for immediate expansion.
I recommend a simple, cheap computer of your choice with a couple of eSATA connectors on it acting as the file server, and then some external multi-drive enclosures like this one or why not even the much-praised drobo, which will allow you to grow by adding drives when needed. Separate enclosures might cost more upfront but it will be way more convenient, clean and reliable in the long run.
Extender support, remote access and a web server are other plusses that you may never use but it's nice to have them.
I wouldn't worry about USB not handling the load, if he went in that direction since he's only going to be streaming one file at a time.  Even if he gets a couple more Media Center PCs, it's just not that much of a demand on USB 2.0.  (Though the wiring could get messy)
Network backups - will allow him to have fast bare-metal restores of his Media Center PC if THAT goes south (or any other PC on his LAN, up to 10).
Drive pooling is a godsend - no worries about remembering what files were put on which drive.  Just add a drive to the 'pools' and PRESTO - your 'drive' just got 2TB bigger.  My 'Media' folder on my WHS box is about 3TB on it's own.
Or if you wish, you can get a server with 6-8 internal disk bays, and populate two bays with the 1.5TB disks, then wait. By the time you have need for more, 2.5TB disks will be much cheaper and more available. This is by far the simplest solution and with the best performance.