Both Godaddy and Dreamhost have zone entries to handle the A and MX records. The idea is that if one provider goes out the other will be a fall-back.
For example, where I work, we have 4 name servers, 2 hosted with one DNS host, one hosted by us, and the other one hosted by a second external DNS host.
Have I misunderstood some fundamentals in name-server config? What can I do to prevent future problems?
Here's a quick KB I found from MS about the structure of an SOA record.  Hopefully that will help clarify what's going on for you.
In light of the GoDaddy outage we updated our name server list for our domain to include an additional name server provider. The list looks something like this:
However, when I tested my config with http://www.intodns.com/ I am getting a warning about SOA serials not being agreed.
The fact that the SOA serial numbers don't match makes perfect sense due to the fact that you're using different DNS providers. The SOA serial numbers between providers isn't going to match unless one provider supports zone transfers to the other, which isn't likely...but that's OK. The serial numbers don't have any bearing on name resolution for your domain, they have meaning only for the name servers hosting the zone, either at the same provider or amongst all of the name servers hosting the zone if zone transfers are allowed to all of them. What you need to make sure is that when you add, change or delete a record at one provider that you do the same at the other provider. The master/slave mechanism that keeps DNS records in sync at one provider isn't going to keep your records in sync at the other provider, you're going to have to manually do that yourself by updating the zone at each provider with the same records.
The SOA (start of authority) serials not being agreed indicates that there's [most likely] a sync issue with your DNS - not all the name servers are serving up the same version of your DNS records.  This may be an actual problem, or it may indicate that DNS hasn't fully propagated from your authoritative name server(s) to the rest.