It's a simple question to see what commands an admin is most comfortable with, and it also helps to demonstrate their comfort with unorthodox (playful) questions. Some interviewees read way too much into the question and get flustered. If you can't answer something this basic it tells me you have little confidence in your own skills. On the other hand, if you try too hard to come up with the perfect list, it might hint that you're afraid of failure and unable to think on your feet.
Question: Describe a scenario when you get a "filesystem is full" error, but 'df' shows there is free space
Admittedly, this is more useful for junior/mid-level applicants, but it doesn't hurt to ask either. :)
Another key point: for senior positions, I expect to see evidence of public writing and presentation skills.  If you are a senior person you should have been published multiple times on the web and in magazines.  Heck, just having your own tech blog is sufficient.  Having presented at least one paper at a conference is a big plus.  I think this in particular separates junior from senior linux admins.
I like to ask questions that demonstrate how much awareness someone has of the differences between different unixes.  I also like to see how much a person understands that linux does things one way which is not necessarily how everyone else does it.  Many of these questions revolve around default linux tools, for example:
I don't care for the trivia questions, as interviewer or interviewee. I do like the questions that have stumped my vendors before, or the ones that gave me "Eureka!" moments. 
There are a lot of sysadmins with 10 years experience. Many seem to have the same year 10 times in a row. I want one on my team with 10 different, progressively better years. And if you've never made a big mistake, one that made you wonder if you should just pack your desk up, you haven't truly lived. :)
I'll say that I feel like many of the "where is __, what is __, how do you __" types of questions feel like junior/intermediate questions to me. When I'm interviewing for an intermediate level Linux position, I ask the typical base knowledge stuff (what's a kernel for, what's the difference between a symlink and a hard link, what do I do if I remove the executable bits from chmod?). Some of the stuff I would think of as being more senior level questions:
These are just some offhand examples, but I think in general a senior admin should be familiar with big picture concepts and rather than things you can just Google for.