well i am using a hp pavalion gaming processor: i7 8750H and a gtx1050ti , moreover i also had this problem after hours of gaming my laptop onerheated and the performance got halfed ; but it is a normal problem which happens when your processor gets overheated , so not to worry in my case the performance came back after 10-15 hours ,just keep your pc shutdown it will recover fast from its problem of this speedlock ....
If you are absolutely sure your computer is not overheating and it is throttling by mistake you can use throttlestop: https://www.techpowerup.com/download/techpowerup-throttlestop/
I mean opening it, sucking dust with a vacuum cleaner, then with both vacuum cleaner and pressurized air. Remember to lock fans while doing this.
This sounds like windows using the balanced power setting. If you set it to high performance it should fix the issue.
Is this a Steam distributed game? It could be the game itself has been updated, possibly without you realising. This could introduce small problems (like bugs, localisation changes, texture changes) or big changes (a complete rewrite of a rendering engine to make the most of DirectX 12, new to Windows 10).
And unfortunately if this is the case there is nothing you can do about it - it is not possible to roll many games back to a previous binary.
So the machine may have taken x effort for the machine to run prior to an update (that Steam would insist on), but 2x effort to run after the update.
It is normal that sometimes the normal performance is recovered fast and other times takes longer. It depends on many factor (heat built up on the inner components, air temperature, etc). A reboot usually helps (because the cpu will be able to cool down a bit) but sometimes it wont be enough if the case is severe.
BUT judging by your post I supose the throttling has a real reason to happen, so you should check your temperatures (you can use the free utility hwinfo64, or even throttlestop, but do not touch anything) and if they are high (i suspect they will be) phisically clean the dust before doing anything.
Your graphics card may also have a setting, which you can find by clicking with your right mouse-button on the desktop, and choose Graphics properties -> Advanced parameters.
This has nothing to do with speedstep, speedstep is inmediately disabled the moment the cpu has any significant load, and it is for energy saving, not for overheating, despite entering the same low-voltage-and-frequency state.