I would like to block pretty much the insecure IE and OE of from my network. Some people are persitent to use the thoe, and pretty much don't use them. I installed both FF and SM, they uninstalled both. I want to make sure gateways to heck don't open.
Internet Explorer and Outlook use standard protocols to access the Internet. Without doing deep packet inspection and checking for their specific headers,  you can't block them at the router.
The last alternative is to treat this as a social problem. You said you ARE the management - fine, then set and enforce your policy. Uninstall IE. If they reinstall it, fire them. Can't do that? Then deal with your users running IE. And you may want to reconsider your "management" techniques.
One option would be getting a new Router or a proxy in front of the router that inspects network traffic and blocks applications based on that (That is called Layer 7 Filtering to my knowledge). However, as IE and OE use standard protocols, you could only rely on things like the user-agent string which might block other browsers and applications as well.
These are technical solutions. Make them work (ie, buy the hardware for a proxy server or revoke their admin privileges) or stop worrying about this as an issue. As others have pointed out, IE/OE insecurity is nothing compared to users running day-to-day as Admins. And XP Home? That's a security joke - you can't even enforce file permissions.
Unfortunately you made a genuinely bad decision in getting them XP Home - save now, pay later.  The best thing to do is to accept that and put in XP Pro; at least then you can start implementing some local Group Policy to lock things down to a more sensible level (although without AD you're going to have to do this on each machine individually - hope you don't have too many of them!)
What you can do is force all access to the Internet to go through a proxy server. At the proxy server, you can block certain clients by the User Agent string (though I don't think OE sends anything identifiable, so this would only work for IE.