Also, in a country with such a restrictive policy on the internet, you can be pretty sure that anybody savvy enough to be trying to attack or hack a server is familiar with and most likely regularly makes use of proxies and other methods of tunneling or relays, and would barely be affected by a simple IP ban, even if they were operating from a static IP.
I would say pay careful attention to your logs (obviously).  Make sure your machine is updated.  Also, make sure you have a backup in case something horrible happens.   
If it appears not to be bot, you could take advantage of this.  You could set up another server with dummy data, redirect to that based on the source IP, and watch them hack it.  Companies pay for penetration testing, as Bart said with "Code Audits".  So if the hacker manage to get through, you can submit that to the developers, and you just got free work from the hacker :-)
Many of the alternative solutions given above on securing and monitoring your servers would be better use of time than simple bans, especially for IPs from China. All the major telecoms(there's really essentially two, but I digress) offer broadband service with dynamic IPs for just about all home and small to medium businesses. Unplugging and replugging a router is all it takes to switch over to an IP that's not blocked. 
I agree with all advice here.  Blocking the IP probably wouldnt hurt, but you cant really block EVERY IP that some bot tries to connect from....I've tried that.  I suppose if its not a bot, then block it.  Maybe it will send a message.  You cant really be sure what resources are at the other end.
You should keep your internet facing servers up to date, audit your scripts, use security zones, jails, chroots where applicable, use an something like tripwire to audit changes and maybe a IDS on a spanning  port (it 's up to you to make good correlation of what's happening there as an attacker may flood your IDS hiding the real attack.)
Also, having lived in China for the last X years, it's really annoying to try and load a page and be told the IP has been blocked for abuse because some douche-bag who had the IP earlier didn't have anything better to do. Blocking entire IP ranges without a strongly backed up reason always seemed a bit extreme to me.