Now, I've got everything authenticated through AD that I can, and it works tremendously. I can't recommend centralized authentication enough if you're still doing things the bad old way. 
My goal for automation has always been that now again I get an email saying "Such-and such broke on server foo. It's been fixed." and then once I've sent the bug to the developers I can go back to reading the paper and drinking coffee. We're not there yet, but we've come a long way from the reactive chaos we used to fight through every day.
So I switched from Slackware to CentOS, created an Active Directory infrastructure, and used Likewise Open to authenticate all of my Linux machines against AD. It probably saved me 20 hours a month without joking even a little. 
Learning to delegate and trust my colleagues - once you know that you can hand off bits of work to other people life becomes much more relaxed. And not because I'm lazy and have everybody else do my work for me; it's the peace of mind that comes with knowing you have good backup. And, of course, well-monitored, standardized OS configurations on standard hardware. Goes without saying.
Each bit of information (web portal, phone number, point of contact, expiry date, contract number, phone menu shortcuts, etc.) where preceded by a standard tag in old .ini format (tag:data).
I got to the point that I was administering 40 or so Slackware machines, and each one had local authentication PLUS local Samba authentication. I also had a VPN solution where each account needed to be setup, plus an internal jabber server and an internal email server. Everything had its own account. MAC (Moves, Adds, Changes) were insane. 
Between deploying servers from templates, managing servers from a single interface, detailed hardware monitoring built into the infrastructure client, it has really changed how we administer our infrastructure.  
And the impact it has had on how we think of our "hardware" has really made it a game changer.  Clusters are no longer "too expensive" because we can deploy them virtually.  Need more Citrix servers, clone it.  As long as we keep our physical hardware farm providing adequate resources (and those servers are truly commodities now), everything is peachy.
I documented all support contract info in standardized text files in a standardized directory structure. I had one central and kept more than one copy around.
I did not use Excel, Word, OpenOffice, a database, etc., etc., simply because when something is down, that something might be the very thing holding your support information. Also these are not easily viewable from a text mode console screen.