I can potentially see a future where certain boxes in more specialised roles have everything controlled via hardware chips (I'm thinking PlayStation but on your server here), but there will always be a requirement for general purpose machines too.  At the end of the day, this reminds me of the bright new future that Java and .NET promised: all well and good for line of business apps, but who's gonna write device drivers or a kernel using them?  Same principle in operation here.
A virtual appliance still has to run on something, and even the most basic NAS box has an OS beating at it's heart.
We're still quite some ways away from this. What we WILL see is applications that already are shipped as appliances, start shipping as VM appliances. Additionally, we may see some applications start shipping a VM as a delivery option, along side traditional software sales, to accommodate shops that'd really like to cloud-source their stuff but need either more throughput than their internet connection can handle or have an on-site requirement.
Virtualization is definitely a growing trend and not just in OS virtualization but in storage technologies as well as networking.  But none of these technologies will replace a system admin, storage admin, or network admin.  It's just the tools of the trade.
I don't think that "make the OS unimportant" is the same as "make the OS go away".  Clearly, there has to be some software that is telling that hardware what to do and otherwise managing the system.  That (by definition) is the OS, and it can't go away.
It'll happen, but only when patches and updates are hardwired into the appliances. When you start shipping an entire operating system as part of your application, the security maintenance environment gets a lot more complex. To some extent this can be automated, sure, but it also has to be flexible enough to fit corporate security policies. Some shops need to have security patches posted within 48 hours of release and can't tolerate 14 days of QA on the part of the vendor to make sure it doesn't break the appliance. Other shops are just fine with a 14 day lag between patch-post and application.
Virtualization will lead to containerization of services as virtual appliances to some extent but I'm not sure how prevalent this will be in an enterprise infrastructure.  These services still have to be configured and maintained as well as the OS that it's running.  Virtualization last time I checked didn't get rid of security patches :).  And it's adding a layer of administration and security with the hypervisor and virtualization layers.
Of course, the VMWare folks have probably the most - shall we say - "persuasive" salesmen in the market - at least outside of the high-capacity-toner-cartridge area - so anything they say like this should be taken with the appropriate amount of salt.
Also, the notion of cloud-computing itself has some major security concerns by virtue of its design, and is not applicable for an entire host of applications.  For example, most companies would have valuable/sensitive data that they would not like hosted with some "trusted" party.
Rather, as I see it their idea is to use the virtualization layer between OS and hardware to allow improvement independent of Windows (or any other OS).  The concept is (I believe) not to eliminate Windows, but to remove Windows as a bottleneck to improving performance, reliability and manageability.