naturally, changing the root password and instituting change-management and other processes to control what got changed and when and how and by whom was one of the very first things i did.  oh yeah...and backup and revision control for config files too.
the icing on the cake, though, was that almost everyone in the place had the root passwords to the servers.  i dunno about the receptionist but certainly all the managers, help desk staff, web developers and anyone else who interacted with the system had root - both current and past employees as they never changed it.  and they'd ALL use it.  at whim.  for example, if a customer called the helpdesk with a complaint they'd login as root and mess around with the system until that particular customer's problem was solved or somehow magically stopped happening (which they regarded as "solved").  of course, this would cause numerous other problems....which other people on the help desk would be dealing with at the same time using the same 'login as root and butcher the system' method.
I inherited an IIS webserver once that someone gave the anonymous user, full and complete access to EVERYTHING on the server.  Their excuse was that that was the only way they could get their web apps to work.
I am yet, in 15 years in the industry, to start a new consulting role at a company to find that they have a "good" infrastructure.  That's usually the reason why I'm called in, to put them right.
(the very first thing i did was close their open relay mail server and implement some anti-spam filtering.  in fact, i'm sure that i got the job because i mentioned in the interview that i'd done a fair bit of anti-spam work.  unknown to me, they had a serious spam/open-relay problem that had been going on for months that they had no idea how to fix, so they were constantly getting blacklisted. not long after that i discovered the horrific news that just about everyone in the place had root access)
taking root privs away from them caused a lot of anger at first but, fortunately, my boss supported me and what i was trying to achieve, and they quickly came to realise that the servers were far more reliable than they'd ever been (not hard to achieve, considering what had been done to the poor things)
about 12 years ago i started work as sysadmin at a medium-sized ISP, with about 30 staff working there.  they'd never really had a real sysadmin before, just some people who thought they knew what they were doing (sometimes they were right, most often they weren't.  overall, it's amazing the systems worked at all).
I've been keeping a windows nt4 box running citrix alive..it was originally setup with software raid...That's right..Software raid, windows nt4..Last failure corrupted both drives and it took me ~8 hours to restore it..