I was able to recover an image that was broken by this bug.  Unlike Edison the gparted live image did not find anything.  Here's what I did:
My plan was to resize the disk while the machine was running because I've got a dynamic volume which could also be increased on the fly. However, this was a bad idea as I rebooted the machine to get the full disk size I was left in the dark with a corrupt image, which I couldn't restore even not with testdisk. Testdisk finds the partitions but the filesystem is badly damaged and cannot be repaired.
I had the same problem, GParted didn't recognize the partitions at all, and it was shown as unallocated space. At this point I understood that the data could have been lost.
I've repeated the procedure on my machine with a backup image and the guest os being powered off, this works well.
Then I remembered using testdisk to look for lost partition on hard drives, so why not try it on virtual disks? and it worked.
In Windows 7, I set up another Windows 7 VM in VirtualBox. It worked great. Then, I needed to increase the vhd HD size. So, I used VBoxManage utility to do that with the following comment:
Unfortunately the VirtualBox documentation for the VBoxManage --resize option is misleading.  You cannot just increase the size of the disk image and have everything work properly.  The disk partition information within the image has to be adjusted so that the guest operating system knows the layout of the "drive" the disk image is simulating.  You accomplish this adjustment by downloading a bootable CD image that has a partition editor on it and booting the VM onto that CD.  You then use the partition editor to adjust the disk image's partitions to use the added space.
Then, I tried to see what is going on inside the VHD and try to attach it inside Device Management and it says It cannot be attached because The file or directory is corrupted and unreadable. 
It's worth to note, that I got the exact same problem, which was due to that I issued the command modifyhd while the guest was running. The official documentation says nothing about, that you have to delete snapshots first and the that guest should have been stopped.