Once upon a time, I was walking by my poor little Linksys router on a Sunday afternoon, and noticed that the activity lights were blinking like mad.  Since no one in the house was actively using a PC at the time, I thought it merited some investigation.
I'm still seeing at least two portscans per day on my home DSL connection, and friends in the neighborhood who have same provider have also indicated they're seeing portscans on a regular basis.    Thanks to laziness, they're only scanning commonly used ports.   
DSL Modem -> Linksys wireless router with WEP key and Mac filtering -> 2 Windows XP boxes without remote desktop enabled, and a poor, long-suffering PII-333 running FreeBSD sitting in the DMZ.
If you care about keeping your data when you accidently run a worm, trojan horse, etc, you might also consider keeping offline backups. The trojan can smash all the files your least-privileged user account has access to, but it can't touch files on a disconnected hard disk drive sitting on a shelf (or better, in some other building that won't burn / blow away / flood when your house does).
I would leave on the windows firewalls and add exceptions as necessary. Have multiple layers of security. Do you upgrade your modem/router firmware regularly?
Remember that all the programs you run (either on purpose, or when a bug causes arbitrary code to be executed on your computer) gets whatever rights you have. That might make you think about using non-privileged user accounts.
Perhaps you don't have any data you care about being made public, but give a thought to what the thieves are going to get when they steal your computers. You might re-think using encryption with strong passphrases for at least some of your files.
Bonus headache points:   the one friend I gave a shell account to, so that he could SSH in from his workplace?   Yeah, he used a bad password.   Silly me.
Who knew it was that easy to open ports on my Linksys so that I could properly enjoy a game of Team Fortress?   READ YOUR ROUTER'S DOCUMENTATION.
I don't run a firewall on any of my home computers, even though they have fully routable IP addresses, mostly because I have a firewall in front of them, which only lets in the smallest amount of traffic necessary. 
- Set up a pfsense-based firewall/router again.   Previous one had a HD failure, and I put the linksys back into service as the router.
I don't encrypt my wireless either, because it's on a separate subnet to my main network and is mac-address locked to access the Internet. 
It's a matter of how happy you are with your protection and how much damage anyone could cause. How important is your data? Is it backed up? How much work would it be to recover it?
It's a "superuser.com" question, but the same principles apply to a home network w/ respect to least-privilege, keeping backups, etc.
Further review of the logs on the FreeBSD system indicated that I was being portscanned rather enthusiastically from about 12 different IPs from two different country codes.