One of my customers has outsourced their Sharepoint and Exchange services to a hosted services provider.  I believe it is a Sharepoint 2007 service.  It is a shared hosting solution, so we do not have any kind of access to the server itself; we only have user-level and sharepoint-administrator-level access to the Sharepoint application.
So I called the helpdesk of the outsource provider, and got told that they recommend using OSD, but no they don't actually provide any application support for OSD (not that I blame them for that), but they could do a stsadm.exe backup and provide us with that, and OSD should be able to read the resulting cmp file.  Then for authorization reasons they had my customer call them directly (since I can't authorize such an operation), and they told him that he didn't want a stsadm.exe backup, he wanted to get into an 'explorer view' and deal with things that way (they were vague).  Google hasn't been much help in figuring out what an 'explorer view' is, let alone how I bring one up.
This is a fairly complex site with multiple subsites and multiple folders per subsite, so sitting there and manually downloading each file isn't really going to happen if there is a better easier way.
If the current provider won't help you back the site up properly cut losses before the site grows bigger and take your business some place that takes the job seriously.
I work for a Sharepoint provider, I will ask around and update my answer if there is another method that can be used.
I have downloaded the Office Sharepoint Designer 2007, and it features three (!) ways to backup a Sharepoint server, none (!) of which work for me:
They have come to the point where they would like to have a copy of everything that is on the Sharepoint server.
The end goal of this operation is to have a backup of the site as it exists (hopefully today, but shortly anyways) in such a format that we don't need another sharepoint server to restore it to.  Ie we'd like to be able to pick individual content directly out of this backup.  We are not excessively concerned with things like formatting.  We just want the documents.