If you want to become certified, go for a Microsoft course. Most companies will recognise it, it will cost you an arm and a leg (but less than a Cisco course), and chances are at the end you still don't have a clue. I have seen people with all sorts of Microsoft certificates who couldn't even configure a basic home network.
If you want to become good at networking, then I would recommend a few books on basic TCP/IP networking and lots of practice. And I mean shed loads. Get a few second hand computers from ebay and start playing around with them. Imagine a type of network layout, make a drawing and then implement it. If you can't figure out the answer to a particular problem, come back here and we will help.
Ah, networking. Can be a bit of a snake pit, that one. The question is "Do you want to become certified or do you want to become good at networking?"
I have just recently graduated college with an MIS degree. However, I feel that I can expand my knowledge base about networking. I want to become certified in networking either through Microsoft or Cisco. Where can I find online classes or programs to become certified in networking or with any other prestigious company I may not know about.
If you have access to a community college with good classes and resources then I would recommend that route.  I am fortunate to work at a cc which has a good IT curriculum and a cisco academy.  The instructors are good and the classes are hands on with the actual equipment.  Personally I learn best when pushed through a outlined curriculum in a class room setting VS buying some books and self-learning - just don't have the time/patience/discipline to do it this way.  Community Colleges tend to be cheap VS paying to take some 'boot camp' type training.  
Also worth remembering that different people have different ideas about what defines 'the network'. 'Cisco people' (like myself) view it from the point of view of the switches and routers and other bits of kit that carry data around, whereas 'Microsoft people' think the network is about the servers and domain controllers etc. At a basic level both company's networking courses will teach you about IP and associated protocols but above that level they will rapidly diverge into their own specialist areas.