One tried and true lubricant is sewing machine oil.  Sewing machine oil is designed to work well with parts that move at high speeds, which is exactly what your computer fans are.  
If the fan is noisy, it will be due to poor balance, or faulty/worn bearings, and these things cannot be fixed by adding lubricant.
What David Schwartz said is mostly correct.  By the time a fan is tilted/wearing on bearings, the fan's days are numbered.  But if you can catch it quickly, you can prolong the life of the fan for quite a while.
If you trust your technical skills more than the manufacturer, then buy a replacement fan and install it yourself.
To answer your question directly. There is no type of lubricant that could be safely added to a laptop fan. Any attempt to lubricate the fan would likely spread lubricant everything throughout your laptop.
If you are hearing noises, it's already way too late. The bearings are worn and allowing the fan to shift its axis slightly, causing rubbing that wears the bearings more. Adding lubricants can make the problem better for a short period of time by filling the space around the worn parts of the bearings, reducing the fan's ability to shift temporarily. But very soon the lubricant will get squeezed out and the fan axis will shift again. Replace the fan.
I have an old Thinkpad t410. Two month ago its fan stopped working. The problem was contamination. I opened it and detached the rotor from the stator. But after cleaning and putting them together, another problem showed up: Noise! After some searching I found that lubricating it may help. But lubrication was not the answer. After many tries and errors, I found the answer! I put the rotor in the stator when the fan was under voltage! and it's working like the day one with no lubrication or anything else. Maybe it's not the case for every one but it's something that should be considered. I think that when we put things together, the router is not aligned in its natural axis and by imposing voltage to the fan during the assembling process, it will find its natural axis.  
Computer fans typically use sealed fluid dynamic bearings, so it's not  possible to lubricate them anyway.  You'd just be oiling the windings and magnet, creating a big mess and a dust trap.
Desktop fans are replaced easily enough (they're all pretty cheap), but since you mentioned this is a laptop - which often have unique/hard-to-find components - a replacement might not be feasible.  So sewing machine oil might be your best bet.