Thanks for the help.  I tried explicitly stating the members with which to assemble and I would get errors like "missing:  device not found"
I know, by now a lot of you probably think I'm a nitwit, or worse. However I do recollect that once I figured out the series of commands to run, it was a fairly straightforward procedure and it worked great.
I'm running 4 500GB SATA drives in a RAID-5 on Ubuntu 7.10 server. One of the disks failed (actually I think it's one of the connectors in the hot-swap cage) and it's been running off of three disks while I find a replacement HDD or further diagnose the problem.
Is RAID5 supposed to recover from a two-disk failure? I thought it was not supposed to. What you are looking for is probably the commands to hot-remove and hot-add drives to the raid array. 
I was able to simply add back in the second "failed" disk and in a few minutes, I was back up and running. Maybe I had to run some kind of filesystem check, I don't know.
By doing this you run the risk of corrupting data, especially if you don't know which drive went offline last - but it sounds like you have little choice.
So I tried just --force ing a start of the array and it worked like a charm.  No need to remember what order the devices were in or anything like that.
If one of the drives have actually failed and another is out of sync, you can still bring the raid online supplying "missing" as the device ID for the failed drive, combined with the --force option. This should start the raid as degraded.
The crux of the issue is that if I run a mdadm --examine on sdb, sdc, and sdd, sdd thinks it's still part of the array but on the superblock info of sdb and sdc, it lists sdd as removed.
Now, before you read any further, NO I do not have backups and the information is not super important, just nice to have.
Anyway once before, I had some kind of HW hiccup, maybe the power went out or something, and I had problems recovering the array. It wasn't that one of the disks failed, it was something else.
Provided the drives have not actually failed but rather become temporarily unavailable or for some other reason have come out of sync, you can try to force the raid online ignoring the change number/time stamp of each member. 
If al else fails, you could use raidextract: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~peterb/linux/raidextract/
TIA. The server in question is not on the internet so it's not possible to C&P the output of various commands on to the forum.
just remember to give the drives at the same order they were originally created and with same stripe sizes etc. Also I suggest imaging the drives first.