If you are talking a cheap USB stick drive don't expect it to last that long.  Using a non-journal system seems to help, but even system logs that are rotated often still cause wear and failure on those cheap drives.
Defragmenting does not help on a flash drive because the underlying data is not stored in the pattern that the OS sees.  You need to use vendor specific tools.
Wear levelling is real. It happens in USB drives. But it does not activate until significant wear has occurred. E.G. 1/3 of lifespan. I can't confirm but wear level is probably real in SSD since a small USB drive can implement it.
I give the following advice: If you are not doing something insane (a data logger that fills the drive 500 times per second) don't worry about it. Keep good backups, use the system, and in all likelyhood you're going to replace it for faster/bigger parts long before you hit the flash write lifetime.
"Also, newer drives use technologies that randomise the locations of writes. I suppose, lets say you have a 100GB drive and fill it up with 99.5GB's, then you keep using .5GB over and over again,"
SSD drives use flash based on the 100,000 write cycle technologies, not the 1000. We haven't had flash drives running that long in the real world, but really, except for perhaps the page file on a normal system, the drive isn't getting that many writes. And modern drives do some wear leveling, and automatically compensate for a few bad blocks.
Flash specific filesystems could extend a drive's lifetime further but at the moment I think this is largely made irrelevant by the progress of drive technology.  How many hard disk drives do you actually use that are older than 5 years?
So basically as long as your drive has wear levelling it is not really something you need to worry about.
Firstly, flash wear is not a real problem. Usually something spoils before the lifespan of flash is reached.
Installing windows on a compact flash card showed this problem very obviously, killing the card within days under certain typical usage patterns.  (Linux is a little easier on them)
This won't work as the 0.5Gb data gets shifted around, thanks to wear levelling. Meaning, storage from the 99.5Gb will be swapped with the original overused 0.5GB storage. That implies the flash cells ages somewhat uniformly.
I shall iterate my point that it is highly unlikely the flash reaches its lifespan before some other failures.
The other point is that when blocks fail, they fail on write so you don't really need to worry about data corruption as with an old magnetic drive that is failing.
I've had a number of those cheap ($10 for 8GB) drives go dead after 1 year due to bad sectors where the log was constantly written.
SSD drives have wear leveling to extend this to years.  If you fill the drive up 90% and then keep making writes it will swap out the files which have remained unchanged in order to extend the flash's lifetime.