Also, I am assuming that once started, and with smooth playback, the two raspis will play the video at the same exact speed.
If you plan on playing audio from only a single source (ie. a home theater system), this solution should suffice. 
From server, you could stream file with rtp. On clients you can just run simple playbin and that is it. All 3 in the same time.
I would like to synchronize one feed (ie. this super maly fight scene from Puss and Boots...lets assume I have it on disk and in .h264) across 3 raspis (via a network) each connected to one HD monitor for a total of 3 HD monitors. I can easily do this via mplayer as described here and via VLC as described here, but neither of those run on raspi in any useful way as they do not exploit hardware acceleration. 
I added synchronizing capabilities to omxplayer, you can checkout the repo here. Note this is still in development, however, to the best of my knowledge, it is the only way to get reliable synchronization across multiple raspis.
There is a project I seen posted at www.raspberrypi.org that was creating a video wall. The project page is at www.piwall.co.uk. Might be useful, I have not tried it myself.
What are my options, either with OMXplayer (Raspbian OS), Raspbmc (Raspbmc OS) or with XBMC (XBMC OS)
I found one potential solution, though it is not perfect. I have a test script up on git hub which tries to launch, in my case 2, threads, which each eventually call omxplayer on two different raspis. The program picks a time in the future to sychronize the launch of omxplayer, ie. (12:00:00 exactly, or 5 seconds from now), then a shell script waits as best it can and then, hopefully, the two raspis launch at the same time. Currently, 90% of the trials launch with less than 100ms difference between the two, however, the audio delay is still noticeable. I take this to mean that either the human ear is extremely sensitive, or launching omxplayer and playing the movie are two different things. 
Look at https://github.com/turingmachine/omxplayer-sync , it's synchronize multiples pi with unmodified omxplayer, only a python program.
You could make it easily with Gstreamer and its fully supported. There are precompiled packages on Rasbpian that you can use.