I think another reason for the slow down would be the fact that every time you access the desktop [like closing a window, or minimizing everything], Windows has to redraw all the icons.
This issue is nothing more than another dose of popular hype that gets spread around the Internet and taken seriously only because it's repeated so often. 
Personally, I use a desktop manager called DeskSpace and have six (6) separate desktops. I have about 100 icons and folders between them. Each 'desktop' has a different focus.
Another aspect is that of icon arrangement. If you have it automatically done by windows, its the quickest. But if you don't align it to grids and prefer choosing your own placement, it takes up some more memory, that could potentially slow things a bit.
Normally whenever I repair a PC I tell the customer that they should limit the amount shortcuts or folders or files that they place on the desktop to speed up performance (it also really annoys me with all the clutter).  I just discovered, as many of you may have, the wonderful free program fences that organizes your desktop folders and shortcuts into categories and looks really cool.  My question is, will this really slow down the PC?  
Despite the information in this article, and given the horsepower you've got, I don't see it making a measurable difference. I wouldn't worry about it. Even if it slows the system down a bit, what you sacrifice in usability (for your particular work style) isn't worth the trade-off.
If you have a slow computer it may be because you have too many programs launched and running in the background. This is most often caused by having too many programs set to launch when you boot your system up. All that does is make the programs start up a little bit faster when you want to use it, but it isn't all that much faster to make a great difference (a matter of seconds is all), so having those running in the background when not in use is just a waste of system resources.
Desktop icons use only a minute amount of system resources. Your system was designed to allow you to use desktop icons without it having any major effect on the system. If it were a problem then the system wouldn't have been designed that way.
You should tell your customers to add shortcuts in their right click menu or cascading Menu in the right click menu. It don't slowdown pc since it doesn't require to rebuild icon cache on refresh. You can accomplish this with freeware called Right Click Enhancer. It allows you to take total control of your right click. It also have portable version so when your customer experience slow down because of lots of icons then take right click enhancer on your flash drive and move shortcuts to right click cascading menus. It works like folders in right click menu.
There are also other things that can be slowing your system down. Desktop icons are the very least of anyone's worries in this respect.
Having a lot of icons does not slow down your system per se, because the worst case scenario is each icon occupying a few kb of the memory. But it slows down operations like refresh because each time you refresh, the icon cache is rebuilt and all the icons are re-rendered. 