It's important to point out the fact that the default option for windows backup is to backup everything. And if your PC is part of a company and the backup is stored on a server, you might not want to keep your browser passwords synced with your home PC.
When I setup the backup info (manually) for Windows 7 Backup there is a little checkbox at the the bottom that says:
The question I have is, does Windows 7 Backup just somehow know what needs to be restored (ie program files and Windows and the registry ....?  Or is it really making a full restorable copy of the C: drive?  (If the later is true then I don't need select the C: drive to be "backed up" if I don't plan to access the files except by restoring them right?  (Because the system image will already have it all.))
If you happen to compare the number and size of the files backed up, you may be concerned. From what everyone says, don't worry.  I still do, but then I don't trust PC O/S's.
The system image will create a full copy of every file on your boot partition, which can be restored from the recovery console on the installation disk. This will restore everything, including the operating system, registry, all installed programs, and user profiles. The separate option to back up specific folders and files is necessary if you want to be able to restore individual files. The "previous versions" feature and the ability to restore just specific files requires that you back up those directories. If you only intend to ever use the  restore features to do a full image restore, you don't need to select anything on C:, however, I have found it useful in the past to be able to recovery just a single file or directory of files, such as in the event of an accidental deletion, etc.
I have a new Dell Laptop that I have setup the way I like it.  I want to use Windows 7 to do a backup and then restore that backup on a different hard drive (solid state).
I can also select to backup all my data on the C: drive (the only hard drive I have anything on) as well as some libraries (which are on my C: drive so no point in selecting those).
You can always mount the vhd file and take a look around ( I do ).  Just the other day I found that several of my recorded TV programs in WMC weren't backed up.  So, some of the public files and some temporary files, for sure.  I'm not sure how many others.