Whole spamtrap domains can be set up - I'm sure many companies use these - either buy 2nd hand domains or register realistic sounding ones with a plausible (albeit fake) web site. Subdomains can work too. Spamtrap domains are handy because you can set them up with keywords or in specific top-level domains that spammers might be targetting.
But as of my view the result you are gaining by this is not worth while concerning the effort. I think the content based filtering mechanisms are fruitful than this "Honey pot" machanism
I have done this.  I noticed in my logs certain invalid addresses getting hit again and again. These are addresses that were never active or posted anywhere. So I setup a mailbox that sends those emails to sa-learn to help train spamassassin's Bayesian database. I've never tested the effectiveness of this in any way, but I'm not too worried about it as it cost little time to setup.
You can advertise them if you like, but if your domains are sufficiently well-known to spammers, candidate spamtrap addresses probably already exist within them (they are probably mailboxes which don't exist on your end-user systems).
I have heard it suggested that we set up a special email address, with it's only purpose being to be harvested.  Then blacklisting every sender that targets this address.
Normally you wouldn't use just a single address; that wouldn't be enough. Try a few hundred spread throughout all your domains (for a start).
I don't think this method has a good success rate. Just had a look on a bunch of Spams. Generally spammers use fake email addresses while spamming and they never use the same address again and again. So blacklisting the Email addresses or Domains would not be a good solution.
Project Honey Pot may give you some ideas as to methods and effectiveness. If you want, you can subscribe to their blacklist and let them handle all this.
I am confused as to what you mean by "legitimate senders using harvested addresses" - I would, in almost all cases, deem such a sender illegitimate by definition.
Then you can integrate that idea with IP addresses. If the mails sent to the hidden address are coming from some IP range you can just assume that IP range is a spamming range.
But your hidden address thing seems to be a nice idea. Since the actual users do not see it and only a crawler can filter out the email address you can assume that only the spammers will get that address.