I similarly used to dual boot both Vista and Linux, the thought of having to reboot to change back to vista was normally enough to encourage me to find the proper way to do things on my linux machine however I don't see why he couldn't alternatively run a windows Machine VM inside of his linux system.
I think to be really useful he should be running both systems side by side. That way he can attempt to deal with all new problems firstly on his linux system then resorting to the windows machine if he is unable to do so.
It really doesn't matter if your administering Linux/Unix servers. You can always use the command line remotely opening a terminal in your desktop or using PuTTY in Windows.
Why was he hired as a Unix admin if he has no experience and prefers Windows? Hint: he might be better off as a Windows admin. I mean it doesn't matter much what the underlying OS is with the availability of VMware and virtualbox, but you think he'd at least show some interest in running Linux or a UNIX variant if he has to administer it.
If his professional responsibilities include administering Linux desktops, then yes, he needs the experience and it will be useful to him.  If his job is administering GUIless servers, then I'd say no, let him use Windows; not enough of the experience he'd get would translate usefully to make it worth the aggravation.
Here at work I use Windows because I need Microsoft Office, access Sharepoint sites and Microsoft Office Communicator.
That way he can come back with his supervisor later on and learn what is needed to fulfil the task he couldn't do without it affecting his ability to actually do the work if he gets stuck.
There are plenty of reasons why one might use a Windows desktop in this role; most of them boil down to a requirement to use some piece of windows based software (e.g. Office or TOAD if you're working with Oracle).
I think that a preference for a windows desktop is not necessarily an indicator of unsuitability for the position.  If he's really displaying a lack of engagement with the unix-isms underlying Linux and this is affecting his job then you might have a problem.  Otherwise let him use Windows on his desktop if he wants to.