My earlier disk-layout placed my SVN checkouts in \users\salmonmoose\svn which meant literally hundreds of thousands of files to be indexed - on a slow, laptop drive.
There are some utilities that will display the Smart diagnostics which are present in most drives now,  for example ActiveSmart 
As well as Process Explorer, you could try Process Monitor (also from Sysinternals) which will tell you what files have been accessed during the 60 seconds. You will get an lot of files accessed, but there are also summaries (under tools) which should show what process are performing the most disk-accesses and also which files/directories are being hit.
If it's locking up like clockwork in the same time period - no matter what you do (try doing other things) then you might have a hardware problem.  If the hard drive checks out fine, take a peek inside the case and make sure you have no:
Seems the fancy program to index your files can seriously hammer your system if you have too many files being scanned.
It might be worth trying to run Spinrite to make sure there's nothing on the hard disk that's causing it. Sure it costs a few bucks but if there's anything wrong with the disk short of almost complete to total failure, chances are Spinrite can repair your disk to working order.
You also need to monitor memory usage. If you are running very low in memory you might be swapping out to disk when switching between tabs/windows. (This could tie in with it starting when you moved from Xp to Visa which would require more memory, especially if aero is enabled)
Have you tried disabling some visual effects? Control Panel > System > Advanced System Settings in the left > Advanced tab > Settings under Performance.
Also, it it happens mainly during browsing, you could try another browser to see if that helps. If it does, it would probably rule out network errors, but does not necessary prove that it the browser that caused the problem ad it  might avoid the problem because the current browser has an addon that is causing problems or because the files it uses are stored on a failing part of the disk etc.
If you go into your task-manager and select the performance tag, you can launch the "resource monitor" - this will let you sort your processes by disk-i/o and find anything suspicious.