It won't make any difference to your ISP if you break up that /27 block into smaller blocks, from their perspective, all they know is that they must deliver that /27 block to the external interface of your router.
Ofc you can do this, you have to make it into /27 that means 30 hosts (plus 2 network and broadcast) 
If you're not using NAT, i.e. if you want to actually do routing and put real servers on those IP address, then you can't subnet your network in a way that is transparent to your provider; they will need to modify their router configuration and their routing tables to account for your new network setup, possibly giving you two gateway addresses and/or two routers (or by setting up a new route if you put one subnet "behind" the other and your firewall in the middle).
Howewer, if you keep using NAT and simply give half of the addresses to a firewall and half of them to another, then their external IPs will appear to your ISP as still belonging to a single subnet, and everything will keep working fine.
in your example though, you had your default gateways wrong.  Each of those blocks would have it's own default gateway because each of the new /28 blocks will need to be set up on an interface on the router, and whatever IP is setup on that interface will be the gateway for the rest of the block.
If you can tell us why you want to break it up, it may be that there is another option to accomplish what you want done.
Yes, you should be able to take your c.x.x.160/27 and split it into x.x.x.160/28 and x.x.x.176/28. You MAY have to make your Router2 use Router1 as the next hop, possibly by having a point-to-point link between them and use a /30 out of a private range as the link.
You will need a router that either has 3 separate interfaces (one WAN, two LAN) or a router that is capable of supporting multiple ranges on it's interfaces.
That all looks perfectly correct.  Note that the servers will use the .240 netmask and either .164 or .180 as the gateway.  However, are you sure you want to waste two IPs on the subnetting?  You have to reserve .160 and .176 as network addresses, and .175 and .191 as broadcast addresses.  If you don't subnet, you don't have to do this, so .175 and .176 can be hosts.