Promiscuous mode on a NIC means that it wants to see all network traffic, not just ones intended for it. In "normal" mode, your NIC would see broadcasts, multicasts, and unicasts for it, but nothing else.
That would explain why your NIC is getting frames from any MAC even though it's behind a switch.  I have never thought about this before and may be wrong but that's really the only way it could work.  On enterprise level switches you probably can modify or disable this behavior.
In normal operations, you don't need promiscuous mode. It's just for network monitoring, diagnosing problems, and so on.
The switch might not know all the hosts and the default behavior for the switch to do in case it doesn't know which port to send is treat it as bc/mc and the switch will flood the packet out of all ports in that vlan. This is called unknown unicast flood.
The switch learns these MAC addresses whenever it receives traffic.  If it receives frames on "Port A", it will learn the source MAC address of the device sending that traffic is down that port.
Promiscuous mode is useful if you want to set up virtual bridges on the system the NIC lives on.  Virtual bridges let you tie one or more NICs on a system into a bridge - essentially, making a virtual 'switch' or Layer 2 forwarding.  Promiscuous mode is also useful if you want to capture traffic on a network, obviously.
I guess the card could tell the switch it's in promiscuous mode, and then the switch would forward all traffic to it. That's all I can think of.
Switches operate by creating a table that maps the MAC addresses of devices to ports.  They look up the destination MAC address to determine which port they should forward traffic and they should only forward unicast frames to this port.
These entries will age out over time if there is no traffic received from the host.  If the switch does not have an entry for a destination MAC address, it will "flood" a copy of the frame out each port besides the one it received the frame on.  All broadcast and multicast traffic is also treated in the same manner since the traffic can be destined to multiple hosts (unless the switch supports more advanced features like IGMP snooping).
So, if you are seeing lots of unicast traffic destined to a different host, one of the following is the most likely explanation: