The extra setup guide is still not obvious to find: go to the product support page on the Edimax website, and in the FAQ section the final question "How to setup EW-7416APn V2 as a repeater (range extender) manually?" is linked to a PDF specifically answering that question. This document gives the necessary specifics about setting exactly the same security (type and password), channel, IP range, etc. and making sure that only the base router/access point is acting as a DHCP server.
I also found out some weeks later that the enabled wireless protocols also need to be matched between base station and repeater. The extra setup guide wasn't clear about that either, and allowing the repeater to use a better protocol seemed to work until I got a new laptop with a better network card: at that point I could connect to the network and get a DHCP lease, but no pings or attempted local/internet traffic would work. So if the network being extended is a B+G network then the extender needs to be set to do that too, and not to allow wireless N: my suspicion is that when the extender is asked to use N by the client, it then attempts to do the same to the base AP and (if the base AP doesn't have that capability) fails.
What it still isn't clear enough about is that yes, you can and should use the same name (ESSID) for the network being repeated. The wifi protocol is (sensibly) designed that way, so that multiple physical APs can be used to implement one seamless network, with the attached devices automatically switching between APs depending on signal strength. I found it very useful on my Android phone to use the Wifi Analyser app, which shows the separate physical APs as sub-entries under my network's ESSID, and you can see the strengths varying and the device association switching between the APs as you walk around. On Linux (I just installed a copy of Xubuntu) the nm-tool and iwlist commands give similar useful information.
The Edimax AP manual was indeed very poor, but Edimax have now posted an extra manual specifically for UR setup on their product support website -- I guess they were deluged with complaints about the original crappy documentation! This was the key to me getting the universal repeater mode set up correctly.
Good luck -- it's certainly good once you've figured it out, but Edimax need to seriously improve the quality (and volume) of their documentation if they don't want to be a source of frustration to everyone who buys one of their products!
I'm too late on the scene to be helpful to the OP, but I had similar problems that stopped me from getting my Edimax EW-7416APn v2 AP in universal repeater mode working, and hopefully some of that experience will be useful to others.