As /boot is usually the only thing that is not on LVM, it is the only partition you cannot resize easily. Thus "wasting" a few hundred megabytes usually doesn't hurt as bad as a /boot filesystem that turns out to be too small in maybe 5 or 10 years.
RHEL 7 also created a 500 MiB /boot partition, but this was changed to 1024 MiB in 7.3, because as the release notes state:
And again, as noted by others, a /boot partition isn't strictly required anymore for most installations. VMs generally do not need it, for instance, and UEFI booting systems also don't need it (though they have an EFI System partition which must exist and be large enough to hold various UEFI files). A /boot partition is required for some very old legacy systems and for using LUKS full-disk encryption.
Modern systems are generally installed with a much larger /boot partition than in the past. The number has just been growing over time.
I always use 100MB as a rule when I'm building systems. I suppose if you're going to be testing out tons of different kernels (or building your own custom kernels) you may want a larger one, but 100MB is enough for most people. Also, as mentioned, having a separate boot partition is a good idea for a bunch of reasons.
As the Linux kernel continues to grow over time, mostly due to adding hardware device drivers, this recommendation is likely to continue to grow as well.
My current EL7 systems have roughly 200 MiB used in /boot, but I usually don't install kernel-debug packages.
As we have seen quite an increase in linux kernel storage requirements and ever increasing initrds, I nowadays (February 2018) tend to allocate 1 GB of storage for /boot.
There are very few reasons to skimp on storage (it's cheap, BIOS, mount, and bootloader restrictions on blocks are mostly a thing of the past), and I'm seeing a marked growth in kernel resources with time, so the safe bet would be ~250 MB - 1 GB for now.  I still generally prefer a separate /boot partition for control and isolation, though this has almost entirely become a matter of taste (RAID devices would be one obvious exception, LVM and encryption as well as noted by others).
For a 3.0 series kernel, initrd runs about 13 MB.  For early 2.6 kernels, this was 3.4 MB.  So, if you plan on keeping more than a few kernels around, you'll need at least a couple hundred MB.
How much and whether or not this applies to you depends on your use case.  If you multi-boot, test kernels, and/or upgrade frequently, you could run out of space on a 100 MB /boot partition quickly.  If you don't do any of these things, it's probably going to be sufficient.