I'm still learning about dns stuff and I'm not even sure if I'm going about it the right way; any help is appreciated. Thanks.
There are some alternative ways of doing this.   If you use (or can change to) DNSMasq, you can configure DNSMasq to feed entries from the HOSTS file into the DNS, and then you only need to maintain the hosts file on the DNSMasq server with the appropriate IP address.
Bind9 can be reloaded with entires (assuming you modify the configuration) without downtime.  You can, from memory, set up a master/slave system where zones are fed to the slave without downtime.   I don't believe that interfacing this stuff with BIND is trivial.
A totally different approach might be to forget about doing it in DNS and set up a "reverse proxy" which forwards on the the appropriate machine - in that way you configure the reverse proxy whenever you make changes, but as long as the reverse proxy remains the same you can always update it.  You will either need to hack the code to do this, or manually modify the IP address.   I am aware there are at least 2, but probably a lot more ways of doing this.  One is to use Apache + mod_proxy, another is to configure Squid.  The key word to google for here would be "Reverse Proxy"
You might want to look at some kind of Dynamic DNS service.  This will allow you to update the machines DNS reference without running a nameserver, I assume you would need public facing IP's, and,of-course, this leaks internal information onto the wider Internet and may not be appropriate.
At my office we setup and teardown VMs regularly (testing, etc). Currently we have no choice to but complain to IT to get a dns entry added for the VM (testapp.myoffice.com, for example) or memorize the IP of the new VM. I'd like to to allow us devs to get a web address that would redirect to the VM of their choice.
I've done some reading and it looks like Bind9 is a good starting point: I can add my own dns entries and fallback to another dns entry, but I have some questions:
First to answer your questions about bind9  (I have not used it in the way you are talking about for many years, so I could be remebering wrong, or things might have changed):
That said, I believe there are a number of better (and easier) way of doing this.  The way I would probably do it is this -