This is pretty paltry.  By comparison, a single SATA drive got similar sequential performance (or better, 25MB/sec for the 4k read), and about double the random performance.   I still really like the feature set of the unit though, so I instead just use it as a central disk for backups and archiving.  For a primary file server drive though, I switched to a Highpoint Rocketraid and an external enclosure
This article is the first result for "drobopro benchmark", but most of the links are dead.  Using Xbench with 6x 1GB WD Caviar Black  I got:
You need to be wary with the DroboPro. It slows down to a crawl as you add capacity. Ours ran well when we had about 8 TB, but once we went above that, we got tons of issues, including disconnects.
The short answer appears to be that there's no independent reviews yet, even the big Drobo lovers that are backed by Data Robotics are lucky if they have one Drobo Pro, so I think the answer is to wait.
You may think this isn't an issue, but when you do need those backups you will be stuck- Suppose you're running an FTP server and you want to fail over to your Drobo- You will need to either wait 2 weeks for your data to be transferred to another medium, or go live with the Drobo and deal with 1 MBps of throughput for your FTP server. Neither's really an option.
There's also no good reason why iSCSI should be that much faster then firewire, as iSCSI has a lot of overhead, if anything 10-15% would make sense. Although firewire can be quite significantly affected by the chipset.
The regular consumer Drobo seems to cut the hard drive speeds in half according to this blogger's benchmark:
I've seen many people saying the speed of the current drobo mk2 is less than steller.  I'd be probably looking to use it via the iSCSI interface though which I've anecdotally seen at +50% over fw800 speed.
I would not recommend it as a backup, unless it's really an archive. The reason is, the read performance becomes so poor that it would take too long to restore your data.