For people seeing this post (and not checking the date just wanting some help om something similar.)
if multiboot, you will manually need to either edit the name of the item & partition UID for the boot configuration to find your newly restored os
the drivers you backed up HAVE to match the architecture of the os your gonna restore them to.  ie X86 to X86, X64 to X64, IA64 to IA64 etc.
easeus todo backup has a backup image converter, to vmdk or vhd, if you use this app, select the vhd format, name and save somewhere.
if you still require multiboot options you could resize the host os to make room and create a space for your image restore.
i.e. if its a different windows version ie say you restores 2012 r2 and you had 2008 r2, and it will boot but has a wrong name, or its the same os, but it is trying to boot to a wrong partition as that information is not updated to reflect the changes
for me it came down to personally doing this kinda stuff with home os versions of stuff, as i am a home user, but it applies to commercial also as in the end, it is a windows os, it has folders, it has registries, it has a boot config, and they have uuid-like entries in this config, so they mainly operate the same when coming down to the real basics.
find a way to reach the image, i.e if networking is needed, you might of needed drivers in the bootable utility,  wireless cannot work this way as there isnt a utility to scan networks and enter passwords, gui or command line to my knowledge.
now, you should be up an running with a virtual os put onto a physical drive, and it will now be as you wanted, no messing about migrating, or cutting and pasting stuff from folders or registries etc.
it u cannot get a vhd, i.e your using vmdk or the image was in a backup file say easeus PBP format,  they have converter options, vmware has an option, i think virtualbox has an internal option, but i cannot remember what its called.
hope this helps anyone in need for some help and couldnt find a no nonsense get to the point way of sorting this kind of scenario out.