Running a DHCP server is not going to require a lot of processing power. With all the other requirements you already have, adding a DHCP server is such a minor task, that you probably won't notice any difference in the requirements for the machine.
If you just need it to do routing, then it all boils down to one question: How many packets per second can the CPU process.
In order to load-test that, you can put a switch on each side and attach a few computers to each switch for generating traffic. Then measure the number of packets you can push through. You should perform at least three measurements - one with minimum sized packets, one with maximum sized packets, and one with a representative mixture.
Any stateful processing is going to make the situation even more complicated. Any NAT, firewall, and proxy functionality is usually implemented in a stateful manner. For those the amount of memory matters, and it matters for how long time the state is kept in memory. Every router with stateful handling of packets is an obstacle to reliability. There is no single answer on how to overcome those obstacles.
This will give you measurements of how much traffic it can handle. How many users it can handle depends on how much traffic each user need.
Once you add tasks that require additional processing, the CPU and memory requirements will be going up. Those tasks could be NAT, firewall, DPI, proxying, etc. Those will make it harder to load-test your setup because the processing time for each packet will vary a lot more that it would if you only need routing.
In some cases those advanced tasks may give your computer an advantage compared to a real router. The real router has a chip that is specialized for routing packets and nothing else. If the majority of packets to be routed require too complicated processing for that specialized chip, the router will lose its advantage. And then it comes down to the CPU, and your computer might have a more powerful CPU than the router you would otherwise be using.
None of the requirements mentioned would require any significant amount of storage. For reliability, I would have the machine boot from a RAID-1 across the two drives. As for performance it shouldn't make a difference, since as soon as the machine has booted, it should hardly ever touch the storage again.
The drawback compared to a real router is that it will have to do all the routing on the CPU, which can become a bottleneck. But as long as you know how that it can handle more packets per second than you need, then that is not going to be a problem.