If the file server is based on Windows: Pick one of the suggestions made by other users and test if it works for you.
If slartibartfast's answer isn't feasible for you for some reason (like not wanting to set up your first-ever intranet web server...), consider the following.
* Mostly XP clients, and pretty locked-down.  Desktop client changes mean support visits every workstation.
If the file is open anywhere, it cannot be updated by the publishing user, due to a file lock.  This means a hunt around the office, and email broadcasts to close the @#$% PDF!
Be aware that any update to the PDF document by the publisher will not be automatically noticed by the clients. Depending on their PDF viewer software + version, they may still see the old version of the file unless they re-load it.
An office associate regularly updates a calendar PDF on a shared windows network drive.  This calendar is referenced throughout the day by many of the 20-40 staff on the network, often leaving this file open in their Acrobat Readers for hours on end.  
If the file server is based on Unix/Linux/MacOSX using Samba: Create a shared network directory that is read/write for the publishing user(s). Let's name the share pdf-rw, and one of the publishing user(s) pdfpublisher. In Samba's config file smb.conf set this up like this:    
Create another shared network directory that is readonly for everybody else. Let's name the share pdf-ro. In Samba's config file smb.conf set this up like that:    
What user or network admin actions would you suggest so we don't need to send/receive these uncomfortable emails?
Publish the document on a web server.  The editor edits it there.  The readers have lockless access with a commonly available client (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, etc. etc. etc.)
One workaround we used in my office with shared files like this that needed to be updated regularly (mostly spreadsheets) was a hidden shared folder that only the person that needs to update the file has access to.  This folder has the "master" of the shared copy, and you just copy it out once its edited.  If it's locked it's less of an issue since the update is done.