There are a number of backup tools that can use Volume Shadow Copy to back up the VM while its running. At my company, we use MS Data Protection Manager. It's easy-to-use, powerful, and scalable. It can back up your VMs on the fly, on the schedule you specify. It requires it's own storage, though. I'm sure there are plenty of other alternatives available.
NOTE: To be sure that any solution you choose can back up LIVE VMs (while they running) you need a backup solution that makes use of the Microsoft Hyper-V VSS Writer.  This ensures that any VSS requests are cascaded down to the VM and therefore all backups will be consistent.
If you don't want to go through that hassle we have a Hyper-V Backup solution called 'Altaro Hyper-V Backup' - (disclaimer - i work at Altaro). There is a freeware version that allows you to back up 2 VMs for free and if you have more there is a paid edition. More info on Altaro Backup for Hyper-V here. (http://www.altaro.com/hyper-v-backup/). It's very easy to use and very affordable.
If you remove the network share requirement you might want to check the Windows Server Backup included in R2. You would need to enter a key into the registry to get to be 'aware' of Hyper-V. (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/958662)
I'm only getting started with virtualisation. I have a server running Windows Server 2008 R2 Standard and Hyper-V Manager. This server is the host of several virual machines (also Windows Server 2008 R2 Standard). What is the simplest solution to backup the virtual machines to a network share every night while they are running?
If you're adept at scripting you might want to consider using diskshadow to take a live backup of the VMs and then just copy them over to a network share.  If you google you will find many read-made scripts. (http://searchservervirtualization.techtarget.com/tip/Using-Diskshadow-for-backing-up-Hyper-V-workloads)
I'm pretty sure you can backup your hyper-v images using the built in windows backup with just a registry tweak.  It works, its not the greatest solution but it hit the spot on a tight budget.
As was mentioned by BigBio, MS DPM is also a good solution but might be a bit of an overkill for a smaller setup.