It's an LDAP backend and similar to Active Directory in some ways. Since you're a Mac house, it is probably your best bet, although you /can/ authenticate Macs against Active Directory (and other LDAP based models) if you really want to. 
In our cases, laptops have a single local user (the owner) and we only support NFS over wired network (and their assigned static IPs). Users use a pair of shell script to bring the NFS shares up and down as needed.
We're higher-ed, so not quite the same environment. On the other hand, we have on the order of 21,000 students to educate, so we're the size of some smaller K-12 school districts. And this is what works for us.
I am a big fan of network accounts and network storage for all users. I work in higher-ed and we can trust that people can remember their passwords.  Which may be a bigger issue with younger users but probably not.   Network storage is limited by your network speed but for the sizes of files and the types of documents most students are working on that's not a huge limiting factor.  If it is you should be looking at what's wrong with your network and working on fixing the infrastructure problem there.
EDIT: I should add that this is for research labs with Master/Ph.D. students and so our data per user is on the order of 250GB+. The user count however is quite low. About 25 macs and as many Linux workstations and maybe a dozen servers and a total of 12-15TB of disks? About 50 daily active users.
Laptops are a crap shoot. They don't make good "lab" computers. 802.1g is sucky for NFS/NIS and with 10.4 network reliability (and no timeouts > 2-3 seconds) is a must for anything resembling "reliable" operation. 802.1n probably solves the bandwidth/performance concerns but I wouldn't try with anything less then 10.5.
The great thing about this method is that all preferences and programs are "mobile" and can easily be used on one computer as well as the next. 
If you use centralized logon with script mounted home directories your students data will all be in one place all the time.  Also it's what most higher ed organizations are doing for student data so it gives them good practice for what to expect when they get beyond your doors. 
NFS for home directories. Linux server, NFSv3/NFSv4. 10.5 is very sensitive to NFS lockd working properly but otherwise solid. 10.4 cannot recover lost network shares... A timeout means a hard reboot (or remote SSH login, and a sudo command to kill a daemon and a soft reboot.) 10.3 works pretty well. For 10.5 we use automount for share management, a shell script in /Library/StartupItems on older versions.
Each student has their own directory service login (three directories, actually. Active Directory, Novell eDirectory, and NIS+). Lab and classroom workstations vary widely but are 95% Windows machines. We leverage the Novell login-script to create drive mappings. Each user has a home directory, and many classes have a class directory for shared files (at least, those not already using Blackboard). Each model of machine has a consistent software environment installed on it, which takes some time for our desktop folk to cook up when we need to make changes.
NIS for user authentication. Linux server, DES hashes and Full Name in the Unix password file gives us compatibility from 10.2 to 10.5. Setup varies based on OSX version.
Essentially, you'd need a fairly robust central server (and redundancy, as if this thing is gone, you're basically toast), and a decently managed network. Everything would be stored on this machine. I'd have to check, but I don't believe any kind of syncing is required (everything is done on the fly) so having at LEAST 100mbit is going to be required, however as was previously mentioned, students shouldn't be saving something that large anyways.
Since workstations are effectively disposable, students either use their home directory or (much more often these days) a USB thumb-drive, not the local workstation to store data.
As we move to an AD-based login script, we'll be doing much the same thing. We have the advantage of a fast, reliable wired network in all buildings that these workstations can use. The login scripts only require access to the directory servers and typically run very fast (so long as all the servers being mapped to are up and talking). We've found that dedicated student accounts make single-sign-on a lot easier to put together, especially when developing web-based services such as a student portal. We've even managed to SSO Blackboard.