I was hoping some combination of DHCP Relay, Router mode and enabling Dynamic Routing(RIP) would allow me communication from the 1st subnet into the second and retain internet access from inside the 2nd subnet.
After you have your subnets routed test them. Set your computer with a static IP and ping the dhcp server from both/all vlans. Make sure this is successful first. 
It sounds like you may either be using NAT on the Cisco router, or you have not configured a route in the ISP router to let it know that the network exists on the other side of the Cisco router. If either of those situations exist, then you will not be able to get from the ISP router to the network on the other side of the Cisco router.
Then, to get DHCP working to a subnet other than the one the DHCP server is on put ip helper 10.10.10.10 (this address is the dhcp server) onto the gateway in the Cisco router (on the interface or sub-interface) of the vlan that isn't the same as the dhcp server. Do this on each gateway that needs to forward dhcp request 'cross subnet'. This allows the dhcp (UDP) broadcast to get to the server even though the layer 3 boundry stops broadcasts normally. 
Build your dhcp scopes for each subnet in your dhcp server and they will hand out addresses based on the subnet the request came from. 
I do plan on bridging this modem eventually but wanted to see what it is capable of in this capacity for future reference. None of the suggested Similar Questions presented are quite on point and VLANs are not part of the equation yet. That is why I originally got the router to work with a managed switch on my LAN.
When the Cisco device is a router, the Actiontec is only aware of the two directly connected subnets (WAN and LAN). Traffic for any other unknown subnet (like your second subnet) it sends to it's default route which would be upstream.
I think your question is not actually about DHCP relay. You are really asking why when your Cisco device is set as a router you don't have access to the Internet from the second subnet.
Combining that statement with the piece of information that it works when the Cisco is operating as a gateway leads me to believe that the Actiontec device simply doesn't know where to send traffic destined to your second subnet.
The link is to the emulator for the interface with what I am working with, though mine is not wireless:
http://www.cisco.com/assets/sol/sb/RV130W_Emulators/RV130W_Emulator_v1-0-1-3_20140807/default-asp.htm
My question would be how does your Actiontec router know about the subnet behind the Cisco device? Does it support a dynamic routing protocol (and do you have it configured correctly on both devices)? Did you configure a static route? 
When the Cisco device is operating as a gateway, it is NATing traffic to an IP address on the first subnet. Since this would be local to the Actiontec, it can send the traffic along as expected.
That is the point of DHCP relays, so yes. DHCP relay takes the broadcasted DHCP discovery and converts it into a unicast packet destined to the DHCP server.