TL;DR: How would you explain what is a race condition to a five years old. Which analogy to concepts he is familiar with would you use?
Musical chairs where one person sits on another as they are both going for one of the last chairs — this is comical, though in seriousness, clearly a less than desirable seating arrangement.
I would use the nursery tale of two goats across a narrow bridge. Once the first goat is on the bridge, the second one needs to wait before getting on the bridge till the first has crossed over, so as to avoid a collision. That is also why road workers use flags also called semaphores to coordinate traffic on lane closures.
You have 2 groups of dogs, the "carriers" and the "pick up-ers". They are on opposite sides of a field, and in the middle is a small cup, which only one ball can fit on top of. The carriers have a pile of tennis balls, and have been trained to bring the balls to the cup. The pick up-ers have been trained to take a ball out of the cup and bring it back to their side. You are watching this happen and counting the number of balls that have been brought over by counting the dogs-with-balls-in-their-mouths that reach the pick-up-ers side.
What happens if two carrier try and put a ball in the cup at the same time? One will fall on the ground, and won't get picked up, causing you to lose that tennis ball. Or what if two pick-up-ers try and grab the same ball and both grab it together? You'll count it as two, since two dogs-with-balls-in-their-mouths crossed the finish line, but actually only one ball has been carried.
Then you gave own slide to each of the programs, so that they can play safely, even if they want to slide simultaneously!
You can use aquapark water slides instead if you think that the normal ones are not convincingly dangerous.
I am not a teacher but a software engineer. Yesterday evening, while discussing what the day was like with my five years old son I told him that I worked on an annoying bug, that ended up being caused by a race condition. He then asked me what a race condition is.
* Perhaps these where threads, but I don't think the distinction is important. Better to keep one term.
I think a case that hasn't been covered yet is the possibility of work being completed twice or work being lost due to a race condition. Here is an example to fill that gap:
He then asked me how did I solved the problem and I told him that I did give each story writer his own blackboard.
However I think that this analogy was probably not the best because he then asked me which person did “won”. I explained to him that nobody did win because the end result was that the “story” that was written on the blackboard was not making any sense. 
So I am looking for a good way to explain what is a race condition to a five years old, ideally without using a programming terminology because that would mean nothing to him.
When there is a slide in the playground where many children want to slide, they need to queue and each one needs to check if the slide is free (i.e. if the previous child got up from the bottom of the slide) before going down. If they don't check it, they may run into one another and hurt themselves.
I tried to explain the concept to him by making the analogy with multiple people all writing a story on the same blackboard. If they all write their story at the same time then one person might start writing over part of a story already written by someone else.