I'd look a lot at the Sun Ray desktop boxes.  They work quite well (assuming you have enough backend horsepower), even in Windows shops, and they're fairly cheap compared to normal desktops.
We are in the mid stages of planning desktop virtualization to a few hundred users, and there are a lot of subtle gotchas. One is the fact that the alleged "dumb terminals" are not so cheap, and of course need software patches as well! However, less than a full OS install sure. Next gotcha is some exec that "has" to have something that the dumb terminal does not do and blows the model away. Then remote access. Then VoIP. Then, VMWare is more expensive then you thought. Sheesh ... 
Your primary concern seems to be about reducing the administrative overhead involved with managing a bunch of disparate workstations and their individual software installations.  You don't need to move to a remotely hosted application infrastructure to accomplish that goal.
There's just a ton of stuff you can do with nothing more than a single server OS license and your workstation OS licenses.  It all has a bit of learning curve, but it's no more difficult than the things you'll have to learn with a remotely hosted app or OS solution.
If you put everyone's work on one server, (I'm assuming you'll have proper backups, etc) it's still possible for that server to fail. Is it OK for the failure of one server to take out the entire company for a day or so while you replace it, rebuild it, and get it back in operation?
With a single server setup as a domain controller and all of your workstations joined to that domain, you can do just about everything you need right out of the box.  The domain itself handles centrally configured user accounts.  Group Policy can handle configuring all of the system settings on the workstations.  And Group Policy Software Deployment can handle your application installations.  The built-in Windows Deployment Services combined with the free Microsoft Deployment Toolkit can even give you your OS deployment solution.  WSUS is also free and can handle your OS and Microsoft software patching.
The biggest question in my mind is: Can you be OK with the possibility of losing EVERYTHING in one go? Is your boss OK with that?
I'd like to build a bit off of Evan's answer regarding the different ways to remotely host applications.
I'd never even consider that solution, just because it creates such a wide-acting single point of failure, but your mileage may vary.