Blackberries are provided by the university, but we get taxed on them, so they're not totally free, but pretty cheap. We also have partial reimbursement for our broadband internet expenses.  We have a VPN too.  So really I don't have to be at work to work except in the most extreme situations.
During working hours we have a couple people who's job it is to process route and sort tickets. They also watch the queues in the evenings.  For serious emergencies there is a phone, that gets called, (and is usually in the possession of one of the managers) and then the right resources are dispatched.  Sad for those of us who got woke up to say "Uh- that's not mine but I can fix it if you can't find the right guy"  but it works out pretty fair in the end.
Right now, I'm the only admin at my company, so when there is an issue, I get an SMS & email from the Nagios server that monitors the affected host. 
My current employer pays for phone/Blackberries through a corporate plan, but that's due to the nature of our business and isn't special to on-call staff.
My current employer does a voluntary rotation.  If you take the rotation, you get one week in (how ever many people are in the rotation).  You get a small extra pay for being the "on-call" person that week, and time-for-time for anything you have to do after hours.
I'm soon to be hiring a junior admin, and when that happens, we're going to get to do on-call rotation (once the person is trained and ready, anyway). 
We have a central monitoring server which notifies administrators of issues with their machines.  We are all strictly speaking on call 24x7.  So when the blackberry goes off we look and decide if we have to do something about it.  In theory we're paired up with another administrator and should be able to back the other up.  This works better or worse depending on the paring.  So when I'm on vacation my buddy should cover my stuff and vice versa. 
We don't have an official plan for compensating people for time worked outside normal hours.  In practice if you work a couple late night hours you can email in that you'll be in after lunch.  We have a ton of flexibility in when we have to be here, which makes up for the lack of on call rotations.
It only works if time-for-time is tracked (which is easy, since 95% of everything we do is billable back to a customer) and you are actually permitted to take it.
We're a small company with 17 people and somewhere between 50-70 servers that runs 24x7x365 automated processes. 
We give pagers out and have an on call rotation. The person who is on call can take a wireless modem if required, but everybody has a home internet connection also that is used. Re: compensation, it depends on the situation. On option is to have compensation be salary based (same regardless of number of hours worked), and let potential employees know this up front and to take the on call time into account when negotiating salary.
My cell phone is paid for (as will the new admin's), and we have a certain flexibility in terms of when I come in and leave. As long as I don't abuse it, it works fine. 