The best advice I can give you in developing a 2D soft-body physics engine is to make a game, not an engine. You'll find that having actual game code in front of you, with actual use cases, will help design your engine and discover exactly what problems it's intended to solve. (Programmers are more likely to buy your library if they know it will solve their problem.)
There is plenty of 2D Indy games such as World of Goo, Aquaria, Braid, Gish, Crayon Physics etc. with a very decent number of copy sold. There is even non Indy games such as the new and very attractive Rayman Origins. I'm pretty sure there is much more to list here, but I don't get them in mind right now.
2D games certainly still have their place. In the world huge bugets and large dev teams http://terraria.org thrive with over 1 million copies sold. 
There may not be as many high-budget or high-profile 2D games being made for PC, Xbox or PS3 these days, but 2D games certainly do still have a future. One only has to look as far as the Apple App Store: there's an abundance of games for sale lacking a third dimension, and they're turning a profit.
I think that 2D games will thrive for a very long time - well into, if not past, the life of your project. For the most part, 3D game graphics are still in their nascency and either require special, expensive equipment for large format games or have limited accessibility on mobile devices. On a basic physical level, complaints of headache, dizziness and nausea are common among 3D users and there is a considerable base of people who prefer 2D.
What I'm trying to say is that just because a new technology has been invented on the same platform as the one you're using, it doesn't mean it's going to replace it... I'm sure the BBC are not worrying about their investment of thousands of monoscopic cameras (single lensed).
The 3D is not anymore something considered as "new", and the 2D is not anymore something considered as "old". Both of them are old, and both of them can creates something interesting that can attract players. It's up to the developers to chose the style that best deserves the game.
Last, more important than 2D vs. 3D is the merit of the story line and user need. A game may be in awe inspiring 3D, but if it's not engaging, people will ultimately not be compelled to play it. Sometimes, and especially on mobile devices, simple and fast (e.g. Tetris) trumps a game full of fancy 3D effects that take a long time to load.
Given you are working on a physics-based game engine, I imagine that were you to decide to delve into stocking 3D games, it would be a much easier transition than were they action and graphics heavy games; rendering shapes and physical world laws into 3D is arguably much less involved than say creating a 3D environment for a first-person shooter or sport-based game.
Indeed 2D games still have a future in the game industry. I even think that 2D games are coming back in force, because of (most of the time) lower prices, because of less powerful devices, because of nostalgia. 