There is also the familiarization/standardization/sanitation/upgrade issues.  After 5 years - really - who is familiar with the hardware and the setup?  Is the setup and all the things like login scripts, security settings... up to your current standards?  Have you run sanitation like removing old user accounts, cleaning up old workarounds?  Are the components still available?  I have a number of servers at client sites I cringe about since I know that if they fail, the motherboards/psu's and other parts are definitely not available.
I'd also include the following - newer hardware is much more powerful than older hardware.  You could consolidate several servers into one using virtualization.  Virtualization when done correctly can make backups easier, decrease costs significantly, and can make disaster recovery easier.  Newer servers also have more support for remote access/monitoring/repair such as Intel Vpro technology which allows you to get access even if the OS hasn't booted yet.
Also, most folks look at replacing their cars as soon as their car loan is paid off. Given that it is easier to repair and maintain the car than it is those servers, especially given their remote location, point out the customer is taking a risk with their line of business that they wouldn't take in their own personal life.
If the hardware and software are still well supported and understood, it seems silly to change for no reason. Are the servers located in a clean, climate controlled environment? They should keep on ticking for a while yet.
To stop the data loss, run backups. Lots of them. Machines at any age fail and if you are worried about data loss, you aren't doing enough backups.
What level of redundancy do these old servers provide? Do they have redundant power supplies and RAID-protected storage with a tested, offline backup? In my experience, PSUs and drives are the parts most likely to be affected by age. As long as you are well protected, you shouldn't be looking at any kind of catastrophic downtime.
Personally, I'm happy to run old hardware but, only when the risks have been properly considered. As an example, I have one rather old IBM server which is way out of warranty and I can no longer obtain the parts for it. However, the software that runs on it can be transferred to another machine in a matter of minutes. Should the machine fail I can replace it temporarily with a spare PC while I decide the best long term solution. All the steps required to do this are well documented, so even if I'm unavailable the task can be completed by someone else.
We always decide when to replace the machine based on what it does and how critical its failure would be. Our main bulk of machines is actually moving into a virtualisation cluster to give an easier way to handle failures.
Explain it to the vendor in terms he or she is likely to understand. Explain that the servers are designed for a 4-5 year lifespan on average. While some will run longer than that (we've kept a server limping along for 7 years before... not proud of it, but that was in the days before virtualization), as you approach and exceed that age, the server will be more prone to breaking down.
Avoiding preventative maintenance because the servers are out of your way seems like a bad plan. If you can get to the servers to replace them, or if there is a catastrophic failure, you should be able to get to them for maintenance and inspection.
In practice though, I've at least one critical machine running which is at least 5 years old. I don't know how old as it was running when the company was bought before my time. It isn't due for replacement anytime soon either :(
Put it in terms of a car. After a certain point parts of the car break down or wear out, like the breaks, and need replacing. However, unlike a car, you can't just run down to the local repair place and get the server fixed. The vendor ends of life replacement parts, meaning they simply aren't available except from someone who has hoarded them and knows you now must pay a premium for them. And while you're searching for those parts and haggling over the purchase, the server will stay down.