You will see your devices there and can go to the link provided in your remote3.it account to access server! This link changes regularly! You don't need to port forward your router though!
There is a full tutorial right here on the raspberry pi web site that goes through the motions of setting up the hardware and the required software to self host a wordpress installation on the PI and make it accessible to clients within the local network. 
Select the type of service you are connecting to, in this case a web server so press  2 then hit enter!
Download Wordpress from http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz and follow the instructions in the tutorial to move it into the right folder for apache to find it. With that you can start focussing on content creation.
Disclaimer ... This answer is probably bit tangential to your question, focusing on how to host; as I feel it would be of some help to evaluate. If you feel otherwise, let me know I will remove it.
I hosted my personal blog in a Raspberry Pi. you can see the stats of this litte computer in this page 
With a bit more configuration (port forwarding, packet filtering etc) on the router facing the internet the same should be accessible from outside the network. This bit would be specific to how your network is connected to the internet.
You can easily host a website on raspberry Pi. It is fun and learning experience. I've recently hosted a blog on raspberry pi. It is load balanced on a cluster of 3 Rpi. If you are keen have a look - https://www.techpint.com
In the same raspberry I have my blog, my webpage (more serious), a mail server and a personal cloud made with Nextcloud. 
L-inux - one of the recommended distros is Raspbian which is Debian adapted to work with the ARM processor powering the PI. you can get it from here
If you are using the Wheezy version of Raspbian, or to support other ARM boards using Debian (such as BeagleBone Black and Wandboard), please follow the installation directions here.
Then follow the on-screen instructions to enter your e-mail.  Remote3.it will send you an e-mail with a verification code that you must enter by selecting  3 from this menu. After that, your account is active and you can add devices and services. In this case, website!
If you intend to use the PI as headless (no display), you can use raspi-config to tweak the memory allocated to the GPU to the minimal allowed (16 MB i think) freeing up more RAM to the applications
Now that you have created an account, select option  1, then log in. Note that the password is not displayed as you type.
After you enter the name, a few more seconds passes while it is registered to your account. Next, you will be returned to the Installed remot3.it Services menu.  Now your attachment to the web service is shown. Press 4 to exit or register a new service or port with the corresponding Keys! Navigate to https://remote3.it and sign in!
Next, as there are no services yet installed, you will be asked to enter the Device Name.  Valid characters include numbers, letters, space, underscore, and dash.
You will then be asked if the default port 80 is the port to use press  y, if you aren't  on port 80 then put  n, and then the correct port!