Clearly, something goes wrong when the connection is saturated. What could it be? Does this suggest a problem with the router, or a problem with my desktop? Where would be the right place to start looking?
High latency happens when packets make it into a queue to be transmitted across a very busy link.  All packets ahead of it in queue must be sent through first.  When the demand on a link is great, and queue buffers are large, this leads to high round-trip times.  
Unfortunately, frame drops was how TCP noticed congestion and knew when to back off. Without dropped frames, traditional TCP implementations never notice the congestion and never back off, so they just keep sending at high rates and make it worse.
I've been having network problems for a while and I'm trying to track down the source of the issue. 
If all your networking gear just buffers more and more frames during congestion and lets the queue length grow without bound, latency goes up and up as it takes longer and longer to drain the queues.
There are, however, Wi-Fi router after-market firmware distros that specialize in avoiding buffer bloat. At least one distro was specifically developed by the TCP researchers who first recognized the problem, and was used as their research and development platform as they looked for solutions.
Active queue management (AQM) techniques and mechanisms like explicit congestion notification (ECN) can alleviate this, but since the issue is not very well-publicized, it's hard to know which products avoid buffer bloat and which don't. It's not like you can look for a "No Buffer Bloat!" logo on the side of a box and know you're getting good equipment.
After a minute or so, I found that my desktop's latency to 192.168.1.1 shot up dramatically (> 1,000 ms) and the transfer slowed to a crawl (~200 KB/s). The laptop's latency to 192.168.1.1 stayed the same, however (10-50ms). Once the transfer finished, the desktop's latency dropped back down to its normal range.
Yesterday, I was transferring a file from my laptop to my desktop with SCP, over my wifi connection. I when the download started, both computers had low ping to the local router (192.168.1.1, both sat around 10ms-50ms) and the download ran at 2-3 MB/s. 