Check, in Device Manager, to make sure that Windows is using UDMA moed to access the new drive, and not PIO - this would cause a massive reduction in apparent drive speed while simultaneously consuming extra CPU time for IO operations concerning that drive.
Download Process Explorer.  While Process Explorer is running, do something that takes a long time to run.  Note which process is taking all the CPU.  If it is a process called Interrupts, then your hard drive needs to be set to a DMA mode (it's probably running in PIO mode). 
Well, first of all you should run just the 2GB sticks, you probably don't have XP x64, so the additional GB does nothing except drop your RAM out of dual channel mode. That alone shouldn't cause this problem though.
You need to do some basic troubleshooting before anyone can even begin to guess at the problems you are having.
Open task manager, make sure "Show Processes from all Users" is checked, and sort by CPU usage, what is taking up the most CPU. Also, what does it tell you about your RAM, is it full, or do you have some headroom.
Check your motherboard. It may only be capable of handling 2GB of RAM, especially if it's an older XP computer. (My old Dell PC could not understand more than 2GB)
If you remove the new RAM and HDD, does this still happen? If it doesn't, add the components one at a time, until you can find out what the culprit is.
Read here on how to revert back to the DMA mode. Mostly, you can take care of the problem by running this script and then rebooting the box.
Did you add the 2nd HDD as a secondary drive, or did you use a disk clone utility to move the contents of the 250GB to the 1TB?
Finally, you honestly do not need 5 GB on a Windows XP 32-bit edition, though it is most likely not the problem here.  Remove the 1GB stick, it is totally superfluous.  The only use I could see for it is if you want to use RamDisk Plus from SuperSpeed - it does let you create RamDisks that utilize memory from the beyond the 3.5GB limit.  
I just bought 4 GB of ram (2x2GB) and a 1TB hard drive and installed them, upgrading from my original 1GB RAM and 250GB HDD. I put the 2GB sticks in 1st and 3rd slots and the 1GB stick in 2nd. Now with my new ram and HDD my computer is running MUCH slower and I dont know why. I've tried restarting just to see what happens and I noticed that even the Windows XP starting music is lagging. If anyone could help that would be fantastic. It's hard even to type this out.
If Windows has dropped the access mode to a lower standard it may just be a "random" glitch due to the change of hardware between boots. It may also be because it has experienced IO errors communicating with the drive. In response to certain types of error it will drop the IO mode down a level and retry so you may not have had noticed of the condition. I suggest checking the SMART logs of the drive closely and performing a full test (drives can perform self-tests, which must SMART related utilities will be able to kick off, I also suggest a full surface scan).