3) Single left click on "Wi-Fi" to select it and you should see option called "Change Settings of this connection" pop up on a tab located right above this "Wi-Fi" icon. Click it. If you don't see it. Click ">>" to expand and you should this option
This has been a vexing issue sense I got this Cicso Anyconnect VPN Client installed on my Windows 7 64 bit PC.
The above setup should now allow you to connect to AnyConnect Cisco VPN while staying connected with your local wifi connection.
The VPN server is pushing you a new default gateway instead of your usual one, so all of your outbound traffic is routed through the VPN tunnel; this is what is blocking you from Internet access while you're connected to the VPN.
I am using WINDOWS 10 and had similar issue when connecting to my work Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobile Client. Pretty much I would lose my wifi connectivity when I connected to AnyConnect VPN. To be more specific, the wifi connection would show up as "No Internet, Secured".
Not sure where this can be changed in the Cisco VPN Client, or even if you actually can change it (it probably is managed centrally by the VPN server). If you were using the built-in Windows VPN client, you'd have to edit the advanced TCP/IP properties of the VPN connection and disable the "Use default gateway on the remote network" setting.
Cisco seems to change this when you connect then reverts it back once you've disconnected from the VPN.
5) Check the box "Allow Connection Sharing" and under "Home networking connection", I chose "Ethernet". You can Choose "Wi-Fi" if you want.
The solutions I found on the internet were to restart the PC. That would restore the internet connectivity.
Not sure on the Cisco setup, because we use Watchguard. However, when setting up a new VPN account I have a checkbox that says forward all traffic from user over VPN. If this is checked all network traffic from the user is forced through the VPN. This is set up on the gateway device, not on the users system. I don't know if it is the same with Cisco, but I would assume it is similar. 