running Windows SQL (Limit reboots, Apply Windows patches MANUALLY ONLY! restart IF patch requires it and then only after you have stopped ALL clients connections) Check connections have reconnected once server is back up. SQL Servers can take quite a while to reboot, so plan this out of hours.
I am familiar with the "user type" that refuses to logoff.  However, they seemed to have no issue understanding that the Server would be rebooting nightly so any unsaved work would be lost.  This is on Server 2008 R2 TS Supporting About 20 users on a single machine.   
NEVER/Rarely and only if required never scheduled. (Normally very Stable if kept up to date) VMWare patches/updates will require a reboot.
95% can be rebooted once every fortnight without any real concerns. (Check the patch being applied is relevant and required). Ensure you fully test the patch on your test server(s) before releasing to the live/production systems.
Setup the appropriate group policies to auto-logoff them.  You can separately control an idle timeout and logoff.  That should certainly minimize some of the issue during the day.
I restart my 3 server TS farm daily at 3:00am.  Because, yes crap can build up over time when you have lots of people using a single system.  We have 3 servers shared between 60-90 people depending on the day, time of year.
Straight answer to Microsoft server reboots YES/NO. Oh if life were that easy! It does depend on the applications running on the server. But here is a simple guide but NOT a hard and fast rule.
I probably don't need to reboot this frequently, but we started using terminal services with Windows 2000, and our printer drivers were horrible at the time.  The print spooler would basically fail after a day or two of being up.  So we started rebooting nightly since we didn't have any leverage to get the Printer manufactures to fix their crappy drivers.
Virtual Servers running Windows Server x Version - Reboot once a fortnight (See above comment if patches are applied)
Reminder: Before making ANY changed to a VMWare (Windows Server) SNAPSHOT it! if the system crashes after Service Patch or updates applied or applications fail to start you can quickly get the server backup and running with limited down time. Remember to make notes of errors so you can find the fix do not leave the system alone because it failed as it may fail in the future.
Generally, I'm opposed to the idea that a Windows server should be rebooted on a regular schedule EXCEPT in relation to TS/RDS servers. We reboot ours every day. It clears up old sessions, releases in use resources (CPU, RAM, file handles, etc.), so my opinion and suggestion would be that you do configure a daily scheduled reboot of your RDS servers.