After several screens, you get to a choice to either 'Perform a new installation of Sql Server 2008' or to 'Add features to an existing instance of Sql Server 2008' 
Unless things have changed since I tried this, then, if you downloaded the file described as 'Microsoft® SQL Server® 2008 Management Studio Express' and installed it without carefully reading the screen prompts, then you may not have actually installed the Management Studio.
Use search, find Ssms.exe. If you found it, scan it for virus first (who knows what those sly virus makers name their stuff), then if no virus found, start it. If the file is not found, re-install the program.
You might naturally think that the second option was the correct one, but this did not work for me and others on the internet, one of whom had discovered that the trick is to pretend you want to install a new installation of Sql Server 2008 which then later gives you the option to select what you want to install and you need to select 'Management Tools - Basic'
You have to download this too... apparently, then the instructions given above will work. They are separate downloads.
Today, I installed SQL Server Management studio 18.3.1 on a managed environment, where the installer failed to create a shortcut.
To add the Management Studio to your existing installation, you re-run the installation program and then first select 'New SQL Server stand-alone installation or add features to an existing Sql Server 2008 instance'.
Some time ago, I couldn't SQL Server Management Studio 17.x on a 32-bit OS, because it indicated that it required a 64-bit OS.
The reason is that the installation file is (despite the name) not just the Management Studio, but actually the Sql Server express plus the management tools, so it is possible you might have installed the sql server and not the management tools.
To my surprise, the program itself is 32-bit, verified by the 7-zip method, given in How to check if an EXE is 32-bit or 64-bit on Windows 10 and is installed in C:\Program Files (x86).