I would try using a heuristic. From what I can tell there are at most 5 areas to move around in and 4 passages between them.  As the bars move around, the 5 areas, we will call them, top, left, center, right, and bottom, are either expanding or contracting. Your heuristic could be based on whether an area is expanding or contracting. Obviously, it would be preferable to move into an area that is currently expanding. Actually, the most optimal area would be behind one that is expanding while the area clockwise to it is contracting. In other words, you will have the most time to maneuver in to and out of an area that is behind a bar that just left the edge and is moving towards the center, while the bar clockwise to it is moving from the center to the edge. 
The value of your heuristic can be arbitrary. What is important is that it makes sense. You can have it to be a value of 100 when the bar is at the edge. By the time it reaches the center it the value could be 50. And as the bar heads back out to the edge it could drop down to 0. Or perhaps when the bar reaches the center the heuristic is 75, and when the bar get halfway back to the edge it is 50. Then as it gets closer to the edge it starts increasing. This might give you a chance to start moving in the right direction ahead of time.
Examining your picture, the optimal place to move to would be behind the left bar. As you move up one, and then  to the left, a space will open up behind it. At this time the top bar is moving up and out of the way. This gives you plenty of time to move around.
So your heuristic could work like this: 1)an area is most desirable when the bar for that area is at the edge of the screen. As the bar moves towards the center and back towards the edge, that area becomes less desirable. 2) A passageway is most desirable right after the bar that blocks it starts moving from the center to the edge.  It decreases in desirability as it moves to the edge and back towards the center.
Just to be clear, what I am calling a passage would be the region just above the left bar, the region to the right of the top bar, the region below the right bar, and the region to the left of the bottom bar.