I don't know your company or any background but generally in a situation like this you are basically either screwed and should find yourself another job where (reasonable) policies are adhered to, or you should convince your VPs boss that this is not the way to handle things. Policies exist for a reason and must not be violated on the whim of a higher-up.
Also make sure they are aware that on any sign of network trouble (virus outbreak) his PC will be the first suspect and be subjected to a time-consuming full virus-scan from clean boot-media.
If you don't cave and instead comply with the policy you will anger the higher-ups and that may cost you in the future as well.
And as for containment, just ensure that no one hears of this or else they'll all want it (happened to me!). No other way around it unfortunately.
Another one that I'd add to the list is that you, as the IT manager, would be responsible for tracking any and all software licenses correct?  What assurance do you have that the VP is using a purchased license for each and every product he installs?  Will he be installing "free for personal use" software on a work machine?
What does your IT security policy say about this? Is giving a VP administrator permissions on a PC covered and permitted by the policy? If not then the VP and his boss (and your boss?) are asking you to act in violation of it. This cannot end well for you. 
Email over typical scenarios of potential issues if one were to have admin rights. Common one is viruses infecting entire network, therefore leading to loss of data, business and financial implications.
It may be worthwhile to give them a scare some week or 2 after getting admin rights: Slip a false positive in the temporary internet files. When the virus-scanner goes berserk confiscate the PC for a full virus-scan and mutter something along the lines of "I hope I can clean this... I don't really have the time for a re-install.. You do have a recent backup of your data I trust ?"
Have you mentioned the whole standardized vs. non-standardized aspects of allowing this? I'd push back if I could and at the VERY least, get all of this in writing to CYA. There isn't much you can do at that level other than tout your standardization argument. 
I'm afraid that while you should have some authority with regard to the computers, network, etc., as the IT Manager, there are people who can override that authority.  This doesn't mean you can't clearly and objectively state your case and get everything in writing should your company end up "above the fold" so to speak.
If you cave and give the VP what he wants you have violated the company's policy, which in itself is bad enough. But also any problems that can and will arise from this will be your fault, no matter what you get in writing and no matter how often you get to say "I told you so."
Of course: If the CEO or company owner doesn't back you on this you are screwed. Still, inform them, in writing that you consider this a major bad idea. If only for the "I told you so" opportunity when things do go wrong. (It usually will not take long for that to happen.)
But if something (no matter how trivial) gets fucked up on the PC it will be a full wipe/re-install. IT won't attempt to trouble-shoot as there is no telling what you have messed up.