It's true that the schema comparison tool itself is not very fast and has some quirks, but I managed to work with it very well and didn't need any other tool for years now.
It's been a while since I used Red Gate, but the VS2010 has it matched from what I remember, with options to include or exclude by object types, and generate scripts to match the two schemas; the VS tools takes a while to run, I remember the Redgate to be pretty quick.
It mostly depends on your needs, because it is a common fact that standalone tools feature more options and are faster.
For what redgate does that VS dosn't its really not worth paying all that extra money.  Redgate tools are seriously over priced.  Redgate is a little nicer to use but you would have to use it an awful lot to justify paying that much on an extra tool.
I am sure that a separate tool is faster (I used in the past) and maybe has more options, but you can leave with what ever choice you make without any problem. I didn't use it much for data comparison (feature that's included in Visual Studio and not in RedGate's tool, which requires a different tool - Data compare), so I can't say how fast it is.
I tried to use the VS tool yesterday with my production SQL 2000 instance, comparing to my dev 2008 instance, and it refused to work with anything prior to SQL 2005.  Red Gate definitely does not have such a restriction.  It even works reasonably well (not 100%) with another database we have that runs in 6.5 Compatibility Mode.
I'm personally using only Visual Studio with Database Edition GDR, because it's better for my needs. What I like about it mostly is the fact that I'm able to compare db projects with the actual databases. The tool can also compare databases, not only projects.
I couldn't find the feature comparison list between Visual Studio and Redgate, but I ran into a post that compares the performance of 2 SQL schema comparison tools - ApexSQL Diff and Redgate SQL Compare: http://blog.apexsql.com/apexsql-diff-2015-r3-vs-redgate-sql-compare-11-2-1-comparative-performance-test-of-live-databases-and-backups/ 