I managed to find a solution, even though no instances of Skype on any of my machines available to me would present me with a sign up screen which allowed me to choose a username so I had an idea to try sign up via the Skype app on my mobile device and miraculously it presented me with an option to choose a custom user name! Therefore this is (at the time of writing) a working way to sign up for Skype with a username of your choice.
When I click Create an account in Skype, I'm redirected (in browser) to Join Skype page and when I enter my e-mail address and click on I agree - Continue -- on contrary to what Skype Help (or WikiHow or many pages) say  -- I am not redirected to second page of Skype registration form, but to Create an account page at Microsoft where I can't set my Skype Name.
I want to create a new Skype account and set Skype Name during registration process. Either I'm blind or stupid or this is not possible.
If you use browser, there is no option to enter Skype name on second page. In User name you have to enter an email address.
If you're using Skype for Windows 7 or newer versions of Windows, you are forced to create account on Microsoft, not on Skype and use that account in Skype and thus you can't pick your own Skype Name. You must use either auto-generated one or your e-mail address, used during registration.
Skype for Windows 7, 8 and 10 and Skype for older versions of Windows system are two different programs. First was created / build, when Microsoft has already purchased Skype, while Skype for Vista, Windows XP and older systems was build before selling Skype to Microsoft.
When registration process is finished, I end up with automatically generated Skype Name, which consists of live:username, where username is a mailbox in an e-mail address, I used during the registration process. Changing it is imposible, I'm asked to create another account and then the whole story start over.
For this reason, if you click Create new account in Skype installed on for example Windows XP, you will be redirected to "old" Join Skype page, where you can pick your own Skype Name.
For Businesses, this is what I had to do. I made an email for my company like mycustom.username@domain.com and make sure your whatever is before the @ is not so popular. If it is unique that will be picked as your username. I did something like connect.companyname@companyname.com and it worked.
An any point of registration process I was not asked for Skype Name. What am I missing? How to set Skype Name in newest Skype?
The 'Create an account' sign up process is directed towards signing up for an account using either a phone number or a Microsoft account as your alias.
I ran into the exact same problem as you today and found it highly frustrating there was no way to choose a username for a Skype account like before. Even thorough Google searches on the topic turned up nothing of use on the topic.
But Skype help page shows the option of Skype name. You can try to download and install Skype and then create an account.