Adobe Photoshop Lightroom also have the option on import to "make a second copy" of the photos to additional destination aka the external HDD while importing them locally or on the network from the camera or CF/SD card.
Other than that, there are so many methods to do a backup that you can just take your pick and see what works for you. However, the server method appears to be a bit overkill just for this purpose. Have you considered a NAS instead? Works the same way from the client side but you don't need to do a lot of management with it. 
For personal backup, and number of schemes using external hard drives and software like rsync or one of the many commercial tools (I use Second Copy) can be devised.  
I don't have as many large files as you're asking about, but I easily have a few hundred thousand files that I keep.  (Many are old and useless, but I'm a packrat...)
In your case, I'd also set up some sort of date structure and once I had something like 2TB of older, static data I'd make a few copies of that data on some hard drives and put them aside, available for reference if necessary, but not used day-to-day.
I'm working for an engineer that takes about 500 pictures a month and uses Adobe Lightroom to manage them. He currently has about 2TBs of data that need to be backed up regularly. To setup a backup for him I was thinking about getting 6 1TB hard drives and then setting them up in a Software RAID 1 configuration with Ubuntu Server. Then his windows machine could regularly back up to the Ubuntu Server. But I dont know if this is the best or most effective method. Does anyone have any suggestions or methods to help me figure this out? Right now I think cost would be an issue for him with the 6 Hard drives we would probably order 8 just so we have two backups. 
I also think 1 or 2 external HDDs would be sufficient for his needs. And when he fills them up buy another (set). Something like DVD backups but on a way bigger media.
In my case, every file I've ever created (going back to the early 90s) fits easily w/in 1TB.  I have several copies of all these files on multiple hard drives that I keep in multiple locations.  With the growth of hard drives, if I ever run out of space, I'll probably just replace all of my 1TB drives with 2TB.
If the Ubuntu server is located at the same place as the main data, you don't have a backup. IOW: Make sure you have an offsite backup. 
I think the key thing is to come up with a scheme that works for the user of separating active files (ones that might be changed, renamed, whatever) from older, inactive ones (files that you're going to stick in a subdirectory and probably never change again).   In my case, I accumulate files every year, saving them in appropriate subdirectories (2011\personal, 2011\pictures, 2011\whatever), and on January 1st, I start a new directory (2012)