Ten seconds is an arbitrarily long amount of time, but yes, it does take time for electronic devices to discharge themselves completely because of the capacitance of the circuits within.  Some of this capacitance is intentional; some of it is not.
As a person allergic to anecdotes, I became curious when I recognized that I never investigated this issue.
In fact, in the old days of parallel ports, this used to be a guaranteed way to correct a stubborn printer.  Unplug the printer, unplug the computer, and unplug the parallel cable.  Then hit the power button on both devices.  Then plug everything back in.  Worked every time.  Parallel SCSI busses had this problem sometimes too.
Is there any quantifiable evidence to support power cycling routers for 10 seconds or any arbitrary amount of time, instead of just unplugging and plugging back in?
I would however consider any troubleshooting techniques involving singing, or animal sacrifice somewhat suspect, but you're free to unplug and wait longer than 10 seconds.
But there is a shortcut.  If the router has a button of any kind on it (WPS button, or a reset button), this will usually discharge any residual electric charge immediately.  This is because the button places a load on the circuit(s) holding the charge and there is no power going into the device.
I can also lend further credence to the comment by "user2813274", because I've experienced a similar event with a motherboard... except in the case of this motherboard in question, the time allocated to fully drain the board was 6 months.  Oddly, it seems that until the board was completely drained, it would not properly power on.  But after some 6 months of sitting on a shelf, I tried the board out again and it came right up, and is still working perfectly to this day.  The particular board was an Asus M2N4-SLI (if memory serves me), which began having problems when it was first installed, due to being paired with a Radeon card that didn't quite match up with the voltage requirements of the bus, and kept shutting down in the middle of games during fast action sequences.  The initial impression was that the problem was simply overheating, but after adding in some pretty radical cooling solutions, the behavior continued and eventually the board stopped working at all.  I figured it was fried, but I didn't want to just throw in the trash that day... and I'm glad I didn't, because its turned out to be one of the best boards I have.
Is there any quantifiable reason to support power cycling routers for 10 seconds or any arbitrary amount of time, instead of just unplugging and plugging back in? Sources welcome
This is related to troubleshooting a misbehaving router. The theory is based on 'things' needing to be cleared from memory, and that this could take a few seconds.
It's impossible to say exactly how much time is needed, as the bleed-off of that capacitance varies with environmental factors like temperature, humidity, and background EMI generated by nearby electronics.  The RAM in your computer, for example, can take minutes to discharge fully.
This is also a theory related to electronics from over a decade ago, and I'm sure it was equally as anecdotal then.
Anyways, I have a Linksys WRT54GS-v2.1 and a Cradlepoint 1100, both of which I've reconfigured and tasked as WAPs, because my routing/firewalling needs exceed the capabilities of both devices (so I built a really fast pfSense IPS/IDS/Firewall and retasked the other two).  In the case of both devices, it's best to give them at least 10 seconds, if not 30 seconds, so that they'll drain completely enough to avoid memory corruption on boot due to fragments of the last run-time environment hanging around after a power-dump.  Both of my WAPs are more or less equal in terms of power requirements, but have different capacitor layouts, and tend to drain out at different rates.  It would be difficult to gauge the exact time needed without a very sensitive oscilloscope to monitor the board at every avenue of current transmission.
I think its worth considering what you're actually trying to do. Turning off a router for 10 seconds is probably longer than the time it takes for any residual power to discharge (likewise, the old 30/30/30 technique could be a 10/10/10 technique). Ten seconds is a simple and arbitrarily large enough time for this to work.
how many seconds would you have to wait before there wouldn't be enough residual power to light the bulb up?
I concur with the other technicians here, regarding the 10 seconds being arbitrary.  The exact time needed to fully drain a device's capacitors will vary depending on the capacitors themselves.