My problem was that I needed my contacts backed up because I have over 3000 contacts and there is no way I was going to re-enter that many contacts. Plus the backup that zune does can only be restored to the same phone. So there was no way for me backup my contacts in a way that I could transfer them to another phone when I changed my phone.
One of the contact backup apps I had used had lined up all the contact names in a list on the screen. Although it did not do what it was supposed to, it helped me unwittingly. I had been arbitrarily scrolling down the list of names and I noticed on entry with a box next to it. You know like a symbol that is not rendered because of a missing language or something.
So my Nokia Lumia 710 windows 7.8 phone ’s Windows live account was not syncing with my online live account. More precisely my calendar would sync but the Hotmail email on my phone  and the contacts on my phone associated with my windows live account would not sync.
2.  Changing the server to bay-m.hotmail.com (bay123.hotmail.live.com being the url I get to on a PC when I access my live.com account)
So I remembered that and I deleted that contact and the Windows live account began to sync. It was a miracle.
I had read on one of the forums that the problem might be caused a problematic contact or calendar entry. But with no indication of how to identify such an entry. So basically the same problem as a faulty mail but with contacts. Weirdly there was just this one post in one forum talking about this, which is why I decided to write this.
1.  Changing the server to some other server like debug-m.hotmail.com and then changing it back to m.hotmail.com
5.  Finding the problem mail in your live.com account. I deleted all my mail (since I don’t use that account for e-mail anyway)
I used the xda Developers WP7EasyBackup (which by the way is a fantastic piece of coding) to backup my entire phone excluding pictures, videos, music and whatever Zune backs up. Then I reset my phone and re-entered my windows live account. It synced. But the problem is that my phone now had no contacts to backup since I had reset it. So I restored the backup from WP7EasyBackup which brought my phone back to its pre-reset state with the non-syncing Windows live account. Same thing happened on using the Zune backup (Zune only backs up when you are updating the phone software on Zune or when you use the WPsupportToolsv2 to fake the update process).
So to summarize – it is possible that you have a incorrectly formatted contact. My contacts had traveled through some four past phones. Mostly nokia.