So the answer to your question is: You are comparing apples and oranges, your premise that they are similar is wrong.
The convergence will continue until "cable/IPTV" and "Internet" networks are indistinguishable.  One day your Internet Service Provider will offer to hook you up with the 10,000 channel YouTube broadcast, and movie studios will broadcast IPTV multicast to the world directly.  There still will not be anything to watch on broadcast and there will still be buffering on your personal programming because your favorite cat videos will never be popular enough to make it onto the broadcast schedule.
The provider allocates all of the channels you can watch to specific frequencies. The traffic is always at a specific bandwidth regardless if anyone is watching that particular channel or not, and everyone gets the same data at the same time. This bandwidth is calculated beforehand, and providers can reliably predict how much bandwidth they have available for those frequencies.
"Cable" is fast at providing TV because it is a one way broadcast signal tailored to distributing TV channels to multiple subscribers simultaneously.  Everybody gets the same signal at the same time with basically no variation.  It is fundamentally one signal to many people.
The Internet, on the other hand, is like a normal highway. When it's not utilized very much, everyone can go as fast as they like, but as traffic increases, then some data has to delayed so everyone gets a fair chance. This means that when the Internet bandwidth is nearly saturated, people will start to notice skipping, buffering, distorted audio and video, and so on.
Even if the coax is used to implement IP protocols, and TV content distributed on top of that, you still have total bandwidth control, and can use a dedicated multicast infrastructure (which doesn't work very well over the public internet).
Plenty of good points in the other answers but here is a picture showing how Verizon achieves this over fiber (Verizon FIOS).  Every provider is going to have different mechanisms so this is only an example of one such approach.  The Internet data and the broadcast video come from two different sources.  They are added on close to the last mile by getting transmitted across a different wavelength.
Therefore, the primary reason why cable, satellite, and over-the-air programming is in real time is because it uses dedicated, preallocated bandwidth, which is carefully calculated and measured out to minimize interference, while the Internet is always competing to try and provide a balanced amount of bandwidth for everyone that wants to use it. Once the medium is saturated, everyone starts to feel the effects, from web pages taking longer to load to grainy video streams and distorted audio.
For all dual-purpose providers (e.g. cable with Internet), you can imagine that the traffic going over the wire is like a highway with an express lane, or perhaps even better, an automated highway system. The express lane/automated highway is a dedicated portion of road where everyone is expected to travel at the same speed and have a constant flow. There is never any congestion because it's carefully laid out to allow a specific amount of traffic across it.
Modern "cable" has changed this by adopting newer bidirectional digital infrastructure influenced by data networks to allow for cable Internet.  This further allows for new services like on-demand programming and set top box gaming.  This required fundamental changes in the cable network and the electrical signals carried on the cables.  Data networks have changed this by adopting multicast protocols to allow for large scale broadcast data to enable IPTV, on-demand programming, and set top box gaming.  This also required fundamental changes in the data network.
At its core your assumption "over a coax cable in the same way" is false.  Cables simply carry an electrical signal.  This signal can be encoded many different ways each of which is tailored to a particular usage including encoding schemes that combine multiple uses into a single signal.
The actual medium is not the same: TV distributed via dedicated coax works very differently and has a very different infrastructure compared to, say, watching Youtube or Netflix, or anything else over the public internet.
Watching TV on the Internet is the opposite in almost every regard.  It is a two way signal tailored to distributing data to individual subscribers on-demand.  Nobody gets the same signal at the same time, and everybody has individual needs.  It is fundamentally many signals to many people.