You can't actually look at multiple monitors at once--but neither can you actually look at a single monitor!  The actual area you can look at is quite small--there is a security system that tracks your eyes and displays garbage everywhere but where you are looking.  It looks fine to the user but everyone else sees pure garbage.
To be perfectly honest, even three isn't enough. I could go for four or more if I had the cash for it :-)
I went dual it because it's not cramped. When doing photography and graphic design work, I keep Bridge open on the right monitor and Indesign or Photoshop on the left. Parallels runs on the right monitor, as does e-mail. Basically, my main task is on the left, the secondary on the right. Saves lots of switching back and forth.
What multiple monitors do is allow you to have multiple things displayed so you need merely glance in that direction rather than dig out the window in question.  It's MUCH faster.
I have a triple-monitor setup that I use for programming. The central screen gets whichever files I am currently working on - usually only one or two. The left side screen holds the project file, debugging window, compiler message window, etc. The right side screen I leave open for a web browser for looking up documentation (and surfing stackoverflow.com).
The greatest help has been with following instructions from the net or application or disk or whatever....The instructions are going on one monitor as I proceed with the instructions to what I am doing without having to ever change pages!
There comes a size of monitor when mouse-tracking becomes to slow to have multiple monitors. I used a friends dual 30" Mac and it was just ridiculous. I think the sweet spot is dual 23", but that's me. It's comes down to what you're comfortable with. 
But the benefit is less time scrolling in documents and swapping windows to the foreground. And getting a bigger picture view at a glance. Oh yeah, that and impressing less technically savvy folk. 
It's too expensive for home use (the eye-tracking hardware) but it's useful in high security situations (say, you're looking at a top secret document).