Disable NAT on the wireless router so it's just an Access Point (AP); that is, just a device that takes traffic from the wireless clients and bridges it to the Ethernet. Also disable its DHCP server, and set it to get its own IP address from DHCP (that is, from the separate DHCP server box you have on the wired LAN).
If you really need to keep this router, and you really want your 10.x.x.x machines to be able to initiate connections into the 192.168.?.x machines, then you need to set up NAT on the wireless router and open ports.  
2) connect the main router to the wireless router with a cable from a LAN port to another LAN port, not to the WAN port of the wireless router.
Note that on the 10.x.x.x machines, you'll need to use the router's IP to reach into wireless clients behind the wireless router, not the actual IP the wireless router gives them.
One last tip: I'm pretty sure your LAN would break down before you get 16.8 million hosts connected to it, so you really don't need to be running a /8 (255.0.0.0) subnet mask on it. You can probably get away with a /24 (255.255.255.0).
Many home routers let you disable NAT, and the WAN port automatically becomes an extra LAN port. Other routers either don't let you disable NAT, or don't let you use the WAN port as a LAN port when NAT is off. So you may have to plug the wireless router's LAN port into the LAN port of the upstream router.
Do you really need/want wired and wireless nodes on different subnets?  If not, the optimum situation is to only have 1 DHCP server running, routing disabled on the wireless (it acting as a bridge only), and have everything, whether wired or not, on the same subnet.  If the only reason you are using two subnets is because you cannot change the configuration of the wireless, ditch it and get a new one that lets you configure it more sanely.
Your wireless router is stupid. :)  Flash it to DD-WRT to make it less stupid if you can, or purchase a better one.
DHCP relies on broadcast packets to function.  Broadcast packets do not cross routers without a helper program forwarding them.  The helper program would have to run on your router.  It sounds like your router is not customizable enough to even consider this, but do check to see if any "DHCP forwarding" etc. is possible.  You'll then want to disable the DHCP on the wireless router.