You might be better off getting a PowerVault or some such, and recycling the 146Gb drives into that (along with as many other drives as will fit) and splitting that into data/logs/system+tempdb volumes.
I would go for OS and pagefile on your 2x74Gb volumes. If you are getting into a situation where you have heavy log traffic, you can split your raid 10 into a pair of raid 1's and put your logs on there.
This will leave you about 50GB spare that I would leave unassigned so you can grow either the log partition or the data one into as your requirements change.
If it were my server I would find two more 146GB disks and make it a six disk RAID5. OK, I'm going to get screamed at for putting tempdb on the same spindle(s) as the data files, but the Perc controllers are very good at RAID5 and a six disk RAID5 will be so fast you'll (probably) get better performance than having tempdb on a RAID1 and only 4 disks in your RAID5. I say "probably" because as with everything it depends on how you load it.
Obviously there are a lot of religious wars over the "best" layout, but you don't really have enough disks to move around. There's no point partitioning your data drives, because what you really care about is the number of spindles, and you're limited by what you can fit in the server.
The easy generic answer is anything that involves high IO should go onto the the RAID 10 disk group. Also have you decided your partition strategy or that part of the question? 
Consider backing up your databases to a different server over a network share if possible - to mitigate the risk of your array completely failing and taking your database and backups with it.
The two disk RAID1 gives you little or no performance increase over a single unraided disk. The four disk RAID10 is giving you about the speed of a two disk RAID0, which is fast but not stunningly so. It's not a slow server, but it's not an obvious candidate for running a really demanding SQL database.
Interestingly I am currently working on the very same spec machine only I am using Linux and Oracle, are you me from parallel universe?
We have purchased a new server to act as a MS SQL backend.  I am curious to know what the best setup would be for it.  
That isn't really a very fast disk system. Full credits to splattne for an awesome answer, but really that isn't a very fast disk setup, so I'm not sure how much trouble it's worth going to.
What amount of performance do you need? It's difficult to come up with an answer based on "here's some disk". Plus SQL performance is much better if you can shove all your data into cache, so make sure you've got plenty of RAM in that thing.
So in you first disk group I would probably create a single partition (about 70GB usable) I would place the OS and the MSSQL application on this. 