If this sounds like a lot of effort, it is. Reinstalling is usually easier, and you can never fully trust a computer again once it's had malware on it. But personally I find it kind of fun - it's you vs the malware writer, and you have the clear advantage of being the human at the console!
From here you can use autoruns and procexp to remove the malware, but it's as much art as science. Procexp shows you what's currently running, and autoruns shows you how it launched. Patterns to look for are:
However you need to be familiar with the command prompt, and be able to distinguish malware from legitimate software. There is no substitute for experience here, but I've found the approach below to be effective.
The short answer to the original question is to reinstall as previously mentioned. These days though, malware authors know most people simply reinstall instead of attempting removal, so most only take countermeasures against automated tools and not a knowledgeable person at the terminal. So if a reinstall is not desirable and you don't mind wasting a couple of hours (or more), it is usually not too hard to remove most malware.
Given that this particular malware demands money to fix your computer and slows it down, the DLL load approach is likely. It probably doesn't modify system files or install a rootkit, as this carries a greater risk of breaking the system entirely. So you should be able to remove it using the general approach above, but if you miss just one hook you're likely to be back to square one on next boot.
I've looked through the given answers and am surprised to see that Trinity Rescue Kit has yet to be mentioned!
Basically it allows you to bypass the operating system and then you can perform a scan of the harddrive. Make sure to download a fresh copy so that you have recent antivirus definitions.
This software suite is my goto solution when I'm trying to remove malware/viruses/rootkits from an infected computer. It has 3-4 different software solutions that will go out to the net and fetch its latest definitions before it starts its scanning/cleaning process.
Open up task manager and go to the Performance tab. At the bottom is a button for the resource monitor. Once its open, check out the Disk Tab at the top and look and see how long requests are taking. Looking at my computer and the computer image found on that site, I'm going to guess that for a non SSD drive, sub 100 millisecond response times seem to be what you are looking for. If the computer has more than 1 second response times for everything, your computer is going to be slow no matter HOW you boot it. Comment back on here and let us know if the disk response time is slow. If it is, you can try to run a Check disk on the drive and wait forever for it to finish and see if that fixes the problem. 
The proper solution is to nuke it and re-install windows. If that simply isn't a solution, the only other proper solution is to use a live cd/usb linux setup to run anti-virus software packages from outside your windows installation.
If the PC is still slow after that, you can try booting with a Linux CD/USB to copy your data and then reinstalling Windows. But make sure to scan the backup harddrive on another (protected) machine before copying it back to the old machine.
Reinstalling is recommended. However, if there is data on the device you cannot afford to lose, then you might want to try out Microsoft Defender Offline. 
I'm going to hop in here and ask more about this first, and then post my assumptions about the computer. You said that its using only 1-5% of the CPU, but its still moving slowly? While I'm not saying that it isn't riddled with viruses or anything because it could very be, I do want to point out that this is screaming faulty hardware to me. Next time you get the Task Manager open, Go check out the resource monitor. Here is a simple guide to using the resource monitor.
Remember that this may not be the problem, but if it is, then reinstalling windows or running a virus scan won't fix the problem. 