Pre-made cable has proven to be a blessing - that said, you should keep some extra connectors and a crimper (or any kind of plier your connector needs), because... well, just because - not having one when you need it sucks. About the lengths, for instance, when it comes to ethernet cable we keep three lengths: (really) short, for switches and computers located really close to the wall; medium, for ip phones, and (really) long, for... well, so far we used only one, but we have some anyway.
At my place, we keep our cables in labeled boxes - motherboard boxes to be precise, we had a lot of them around after a large upgrade, and since they fit nicely in a free cabinet we started keeping them there. The boxes are big enough to keep a reasonable amount of (properly tied) cables, but not large enough to be cumbersome. We used to keep them tied with zip ties, but it became clear soon that technicians couldn't be bottered with putting another tie after using the cable, so now we use twist ties (hint: doesn't work either, so don't bother).
Finally, about the inventory part, we don't keep any - while is true our cable management will never get an ISO certification, we found it easier to treat cable as supplies: take as much as you need.
I don't use zip ties on cables and use hook & loop to keep them together.  In the bins / boxes I just wrap them up around them selves.
Some of our patch cables are labeled on both ends with data jack number, but not all.  This will be fixed when we move in the next few months.
Small shop with me and my boss, but mostly me in charge of cables, so no need.  Just order more when I am running low.
We keep a variety of cables in different bins depending on type.  Cat 5 in one bin, power cords in another, and USB / other cables in a third.
We buy pre-made cables, but have a reel of cat 5 for areas where our pre-mades dont work and we need it done today.
Musicians use these...but I saw a friend using them in his network closet ...Great for organzing Ethernet cables by length, USB cords...anything really.. very useful