You'll need homogenous hardware (CPUs mainly) if you want to do live migration. You don't mention if it's OK to shut the VM down to do the migration or not, but I'm assuming you want to do it while the VM is still powered on.
KVM can do this. See http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Migration or a Red Hat demo video from 2008 at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EuhU6jJjpAQ . (The video seems to use Qumranet's ms-windows-based management interface, but it's KVM underneath.) But of course that's going to require hardware that supports virtualization.
You can also check PlateSpin/Novell solution. If I remember it correctly it is called Platespin Migrate or something. It is rather expensive but it allows live migration even between hypervisors (for example between VmWare and XenServer).
To find out if a particular hypervisor supports this, I believe that you will need to see that it supports the Xeon VT-x line of processors.  If you aren't sure, ask a sales rep and they will gladly help you get to the bottom of this.  VMWare's product line was supported on day 1 after the announcement.
I patently disagree with the other answers.  Last year (2009) Intel announced their VT technology that specifically allows for VMs to be migrated live between similar, but not exact CPU types.  As expected, this only works with the Intel Xeon line of processors as shown on the FlexMigration home page.  I don't know of a similar offering from AMD.
Here is a detailed white paper: http://download.intel.com/it/pdf/Testing_Live_Migration_with_FlexMigration.pdf
Note: I have absolutely no business or personal relationship with Intel - I was just paying attention when they announced it.
If that's the case, then as far as I know, there's no hypervisors that support live migration to non-homogenous custers because it simply isn't possible. Differences in CPU architecture mean that the VM and its guest OS are operating in certain manners that are impossible on different architectures. Even a single CPU generation mismatch can be enough to make this impossible.