When the dyn DNS client updates your record, it will usually come from your primary connection, and so everything will come to that IP. If the connection goes down, it will start coming from your secondary connection, and thus you get your failover. If you lose a connection, it will take up to as long as your dyn DNS client updates before coming back up (5 minutes maybe? less with "pro" accounts).
What's the chance that one ADSL will go out and leave the other one up?  Are they from the same provider coming through the same demarcation point?
On a side note regarding fail-over, you mention two ADSL connections. That's great and all, but there are several considerations here:
You may also want to consider hosting office.ourfirm.com's site with a hosting provider that can guarantee uptime.
At my current office we have failover exactly as described, and our primary connection is cable, and our secondary is DSL. Nothing is shared between the two, and both are major ISPs with multiple upstream connections to the internet backbone. I'm sure somewhere it's vulnerable to a backhoe operator, but at least they're completely physically different cables maintained by different companies, so there's very little chance of something that will kill both.
I've done this multiple times before. The way I do it is with a dynamic DNS provider like dyndns.org. 
The easy answer is with a router that supports a failover iconnection, but then you can't use both lines.  How are you using both lines right now?
We would like to use the other connection as a backup.  I know there is "round robin" DNS but that isn't a redundancy system is it?  How would you suggest we get this other ADSL connection added to the DNS so one ADSL will act as a failover for the other?
The firm that I work for has 2 ADSL lines into the office.  We have a domain office.ourfirm.com which we would like to be able to reach our network server on.  One of ADSL connections is already a DNS entry for office.ourfirm.com.
I'd highly recommend using two different technologies for the best redundancy. There are many possible ways to connect now, so it's not overly difficult or expensive in most places: cable, DSL, fibre, satellite, wireless, GSM/cellular.
If you are looking to create network redundancy to ensure uptime of office.ourfirm.com, please consider getting a backup internet connection from a different provider that comes into your office through other means.
Depending on how comfortable you are with BIND (I assume you control your own DNS servers, but you do not specify what type), this is possible with dynamic DNS updates. I recently set something like this up as a proof-of-concept.
You can configure a probe that tests the availability of your ADSL connections and invokes nsupdate to dynamically modify the zone in the event of a failure. See man nsupdate for more details about that. You would supply some simple instructions indicating "delete the A-record for the downed router" or "readd the A-record once that router comes back up". You can use "round-robin" A-records with low TTLs under normal circumstances so that the DNS server returns more than one functional address. Then you simply remove non-functional addresses if they are unusable and re-add them once they're working again.