Successfully launching spoofed IP attacks are quite difficult.  The continued popularity of firewalls suggest its continued applicability and relevance.  However, one important point I want to make is to point out the two different firewall types: stateful and stateless.  Stateful firewalls generally provide more security because of its ability to keep track of sessions.  Stateless firewalls, though they still provide some additional measure of control, can be more easily thwarted.  The attack scenario is if there's a vulnerability with a service that can be exploited without establishing full connectivity.  Such attacks are less common today, but may still exist.  
As others have said spoofing a TCP conection is not easy - but still possible. Firewalls help - but don't address the fundamental issue. Authentication is good but only if it is intrinsically secure - hence I'd suggest you consider a VPN. This solves a lot of problems over what acces you want to expose remotely (only a single port for a tunnelling vpn) via whichyou can selectively and securely expose as much as you want without having to worry about the services implementing insecure protocols.
As for what everyone else is saying, you really can't spoof an IP. You can proxy an IP, and you can hide a point of origin relatively easily, but you can't spoof an IP. See, internet routing is done based on your IP address, so if your "from" address is fake, when the packets hit their destination and it tries to send a reply, it will send it to the from address. If it's spoofed, well, it doesn't get to you because it will get routed elsewhere. About as close as you can get is using TOR.
What you're doing is actually a normal security best practice, so you're fine. If you have it open to the public internet, I'd suggest moving it off of the default port to something different. Consider putting any servers that need to be accessible in a DMZ (demilitarized zone) where you distrust any traffic to/from them. Then you can configure ACL's so that your lan can connect into the DMZ, but the DMZ can't initiate connections to the LAN. If you can't put the servers in a DMZ, consider putting a single server into a DMZ where you can connect in, and then allow connectivity from there into other servers on your network (where I work we refer to this as a jump box). As always, use good practices with usernames/passwords.
Yes, it is used mostly in DOS attacks, and spoofing a real address and actually getting the replies is not that easy.
The only way an attacker could launch a spoofed IP attack is if they had access to your provider's network or access to the physical network between you and your provider.  In which case, the attacker can easily spoof their IP and receive return traffic.  Many people overlook physical security since only the more determined and skilled attacker would carry out such an attack, but it is still possible and some organizations, especially smaller companies, are quite susceptible to it.  