So.. to fix this, you'll need to find equivalent settings in your router, or work around it.  Common work around for non-mobile devices (iThings and 'droids, etc) is to use the hosts file to provide a mapping of a name to an IP address.   Alternatively, use a 3rd device to provide that service - I use a Raspberry Pi to provide DHCP, local network DNS (desktop.home.test), a caching only DNS server for external lookups, and DHCP service.  More manual config involved but as a sysadmin/dev guy it isn't much...  
Depending on what your current router/modem can do you may want to look at installing one of the 3rd party firmware/OSes on it, they all tend to provide all of these services and more (like QoS, etc)
Your old router may have had its own dns service running and at some point you entered the names laptop and desktop and told it to assign them the same address all the time.  Or, your computers may actually be named laptop and desktop and the old router's DHCP service was picking that up when they asked for an address.
As to not being able to connect via IP address, assuming the address is correct it may be possible that your router is splitting wireless off onto a different subnet from the wired connections and is preventing communication between them.  This can be kinda common for providing guest access, so a client has a internet access but can't see/access computers on the local-to-it subnet.  Again, solution to this will actually depend on the router, the software/firmware version it is running, etc.  
I have recently replaced a router at home. The old one was D-Link DIR-300, the new one is Keenetic Lite. There are two computers at home, let's call them desktop and laptop.
The computer still seems to be visible from the local network, when I run nmap -sP 192.168.1.*, IP addresses of both computers are there. Furthermore, I don't think the issue is with ssh itself: when I set up port 22 forwarding on router, I was able to ssh into both computers using their external IP addresses. Using local IP addresses leads to port 22: connection refused, though.
The problem is, before I changed the router I was able to connect e.g. from laptop to desktop like that: