It's important to ensure that students log on at least once, in order to change the password - perhaps by sending their timetable or something by email (if the email is linked to the system account), or copying a file to the user area.
Staff should never be told the password, and this should be enforced site-wide. Indeed, no-one except the student should know the password.
As for the distribution of the initial password, you could print a letter for each student and ask them to collect it (although this would take a lot of time), distribute it to tutors or mentors (sealed - although not providing any security, enforcing the password change will see to ensuring that a password hasn't been cloned), or post it to their address. I wouldn't print a list of passwords at any point, really.
You might want to look up the key distribution problem (Google reveals lots of info), as the problems you've outlined are fundamental to a lot of theoretical and practical cryptography. Generally the username is not consider secret; for lots of sites it consists of an email address, and for lots of academic establishments it consists of a student's initials suffixed by an integer for uniqueness. This tends to make usernames easy to find out. Indeed, some academic establishments use them actively and publicly to refer to students. The password is the most important, of course, in this type of security. It should be set to an initial value (unless you can ensure that the initial password will be entered by the student in controlled conditions, such as after initial registration), and this should be changed by the student upon first logging in. This should be enforced, otherwise there's no way of knowing if the password has already been compromised. If the student logs in successfully and changes the password, it doesn't matter if the password has been read before, as it's now been changed. If the student can't log in, the password may have been compromised, and therefore this will be detectable. This is the same basic method that banks use to issue PINs for credit cards - although most people don't bother to change the PIN they've been sent.