SonicWall appliances are easy to manage with the built-in wizards, even though they are a little messy behind the scenes.  Don't recommend ASA for a small business - they are way too complex for a part time admin.  Even a freebie IPCop is a good product (and it uses the same SNORT that Cisco ASA uses with SourceFire) but it's going to be some work to support on your own.  I recommend some kind of firewall solution that doesn't just NAT you over to the RDS server (like those consumer routers do).  Some people think the renewals are too expensive, but the business being down due to malicious intent or data loss is a lot more expensive.
Small org like yours should be good with all 1G switching unless you are dealing with large things like PACS imaging, large graphics or engineering drawings and the like.  Even then, we are fine with 1G to the switches with medical imaging (switches are then 10G to the core).  If you are carrying VoIP on your network, I don't recommend NetGear switches - had a very bad support experience and threw 3 $600 switches into the junk pile, replacing them with another manufactures product that solved the problem (a firmware issue).  Cisco Small Business has given me the best support (even had a free upgrade through support for an odd network error that a replacement didn't fix but the upgraded model did).  HP or Dell are good also, but HP won't give you configuration support like Cisco does.  I have a little Meraki under my desk connected to upstream to my Cisco distribution switches and it rocks - I am really impressed.  If using VoIP or other things that should be on their own network, I recommend using VLANs.  If you want be able to capture packets for troubleshooting and see who is on your network, doing what, I'd go with Meraki.  It's a subscription model, so go for the longest term right off the bat.  You can do a lot of things through their web interface.  Attend a webinar and get a free one with PoE!!!
Servers should have MFG support.  It's a critical box that runs your environment.  Ask how much a few days of downtime would cost the org and compare that to 5 years of maintenance and support.  I'd go Dell or HP.  Cisco is fantastic but more expensive (however I love the Virtual Interface Cards and how they integrate with Nexus switching fabric!!).
Gotta agree with Rob when talking Exchange.  Exchange can be somewhat complex to manage with a full Exchange Server deployment and migration can be complex.  Microsoft's SBS does some strange things.  Microsoft has been pushing it and using a hosted service is what I would recommend for a smaller organization like yours.  Microsoft has 4 plans that should cover all of your needs.  This eliminates Exchange server licensing, hardware (phys or virtual) and product support issues.  Four years ago, I saw O365 go down twice in a year.  I'm guessing it's more stable now.
Wireless can be a lot of trouble.  If you use independent access points, you need to worry about co-channel interference, the lack of mobility between radios, setup and troubleshooting.  If you have Apple devices, I've seen some funny stuff with them.  SonicWall's wireless works quite well (an appliance with wireless and a thin access point or more depending on how large of an area you have).  I have a Meraki demo unit at home and it seems to work okay.  Range isn't the best (not like my Cisco 3702s at work), but they are easy to manage.  No matter what you do with APs, don't set power to 100% thinking that will help.  I've seen many problems solved by turning the power down.  Way down.  SonicWall support can be very helpful with wireless issues if you go with them.
Microsoft recommends running Hyper-V with no other roles, but AD doesn't take much resource, so both roles should be fine.  With one license, you can have 2 VMs on the server.  With Exchange hosted, you could build a VM that is only a DC (I always recommend two domain controllers) and a second for your RDP server.