Or, you can install the full driver package with all it's junk and then disable the startup of any driver-related applications and services (Intel and HP both like using services) using a tool such as AutoRuns.
All in all, drivers help you get the most out of your hardware. Windows 7 provides drivers to let you see the Windows 7 experience right away without tinkering too much. From then on you can install drivers as necessary.
For instance if you don't install your GPU drivers you won't be getting full 3D acceleration and the fans won't be able to function as there is no proper connection between the hardware and OS.
The built-in drivers let you install Windows, boot up, and do some basic things, but for the best performance, the most “customizability”, and the most stability, you will want to install the most updated, specific drivers for each component.
Also, it is often possible to unpack a driver package and have deice manager/the new devices wizard search for the driver directly, avoiding the horrible packaged software/management utils.
You can generally avoid the Vendor UIs (which I agree are annoying) by installing just the drivers. Some driver installer packages offer this, allowing you to forego their applications and interfaces. But for some you'll need to extract the drivers and then use the Update Driver function in Windows to install just that driver.
The generic drivers are often provided by the manufacturers themselves, but they are specifically designed to get the system working at all, not necessarily working well. Further, depending on the component, they may outdated and can not only run slower than with a newer driver, but also have bugs that may have since been fixed. Plus, you may think that your system is old and newer drivers are unnecessary since the current/old/generic ones worked just fine last year, but consider bugs that lead to exploits which could allow an attacker to do something to mess up your system: you may not have changed anything with your system, but the outside world has changed, thus requiring a newer driver to patch the hole.
Have a look in the device manager and see if there are any "unknown" devices. If there are just install the drivers needed for them.
It's possible Windows 7 had all of your required drivers built in (it seems to be pretty good for drivers.) Updated drivers however could increase the device's efficiency, performance or fix an error/fault the manufacturer has found with the old drivers.
These are the methods I've used to get the benefits of the full driver without having to deal with the cruft so many manufacturers think you really want and need.
If you are gamer, both nVidia and ATI are optimizing their drivers for (popular) AAA games. For example, if Super Computer Game 3 hits the stores today, in a week nV and ATI might ship new version of drivers which will increase your FPS (frame per second) or in some other way improve your gaming experience. 
Personally, the only drivers I update from what comes with Windows 7 is chipset and graphics. Anything else I only install if, like I said above, it shows as unknown in Device Manager.