You can't do it yourself because some of the items have restricted permissions, are read-only, or are recognized as system files.
I installed windows 7 many months ago on my laptop, and I don't exactly remember, which method I followed for installation : whether clean Install or startup repair. I find memory shortage and when I searched for items to delete, I found a folder named "windows.old", which is 44 GB fat.
As such, it will contain the drivers, registry hives, system settings, Windows Updates, and everything else that goes in the Windows folder from your previous installation.
Go through it first (your user's documents and pictures) to make sure you have everything out of it before you erase it.
One thing to definitely check before deleting it is to look through the user folders Users\* to scan for anything you want to keep like files you’ve created/saved, settings for programs, and so on. (You can also look through Program Files*, but there will rarely be anything you need to copy.)
One of the boxes will be Old Windows Installations, and you can select it and have windows safely clean it out.
You used the clean install method to re-install; the Windows.old folder is a copy of your previous Windows installation.
You absolutely can delete it, take a look at the Microsoft Suggested Way to remove the Windows.old folder:
Much of that is disposable because they can be gotten again with the new installation (e.g., Windows Updates, .NET Frameworks, drivers, etc.) However, you may want to consider a few thing before deleting it since there may be some things you might want to keep.
In my opinion, that method is excessive (but I always clean install anyway).  Just verify that you don't need anything in there and delete it however is most comfortable, their method may be more clean.
Also of note is that the actual Windows folder is not actually 44GB (or at least, it shouldn’t be). Windows uses hardlinks to make file entries that are really just pointers/shortcuts, and thus share space on the disk. You can find the actual disk space being used by looking at the Size on disk field in the folder’s Properties dialog: