I believe it could be achieve to your custom increment range by first creating a hidden table which will keep the initial gap of auto increments begining from zero to your choice , eg. that table will keep the 0 to 1050
One reason a user may want to change the value of an autonumber field is to correct an error caused by database editing.  When an administrator may want to make some major changes to a front end of a database, that admin might make copies of all related tables, and redirect a development copy of the front end to these back ends.  If the changes are sufficient enough, he may just replace the production copy of the front end with his copy, redirecting all linked tables after testing.
No problem, right?  Well, the autonumber incrementation stays with the front end.  So if the production side just incremented the autonumber by 50 or 500 or 5000 numbers while the admin was working on the copy, then the new production copy will by retrying those same numbers and won't be able to enter items into those fields, one at a time, until it gets "in the clear".  Copy 50, 500, or 5000 rows of excel data and try to paste it in.  It will error on each line (be sure to suppress further messages when it pops up), but the autonumber will increment by that amount and you're good to go again.    If you're using autonumbers in this way, it would be advised to increment the numbers to whatever the production db is at before overwriting it with your development copy.
This is also a way to start your autonumber at something higher than 1.  Like the old days of setting the page visits counter at 17,479 on your Geocities homepage, when really it was only visited 16 times.  By you.
A simple way to achieve something similar is to have an Autonumber field (eg "ID") and a second Calculated field (eg "ItemID") and enter the formula "1000+[ID]" for the calculated field. This new field will now automatically track the Autonumber field, but will start from 1001 instead of 1.
This method works with a new table, or with a table whose AutoNumber has not yet reached the Seed value. (Of course, the ID field for existing rows will not be changed, but subsequent rows will start with 1000.)"