Seems a computer with more than one EFI partition (including on a second disk, even if external) prevents the backup from executing.
I was facing the same error code while trying to create a system image backup in windows 10. The solution that worked for me was simply disabling windows defender.
I have a Buffalo TeraStation NAS and experienced the same issue. After providing the group 'Domain Computers' write access it worked for me.
I was able to create system images with no problem at first, my problem started after i changed windows defender settings to exclude certain folders. I believe by altering windows defender settings it altered the permissions for users on the system and denied access to the WindowsImageBackup folder on the drive in question.
(Of course make sure you have enough permissions to write on that target location… E.g. add "Domain computers" to it and give read/write permissions. Note that for example Nvidia creates also a user on your pc for its driver. I don't take this data in my backup, maybe this user doesn't have permissions on the target if you also include it in your backup… I only take my user data.)
Map the drives as "Local System account" with proper credentials and use drive letters to access your target volume. The mentioned IOPL error may be an indication of wrong permissions, such as when a login-only drive is accessed anonymously. 
My destination disk used to be the main disk of another laptop, which prevented the backup from executing. Doing a diskpart clean to erase the disk worked.
I have to admit that I am guessing in this case. However, it's not a haphazard suggestion: An application will include support for accessing local files in a whole lot more cases than support for accessing "samba shares" directly. So if you let the OS handle file access over the network, your backup software will be more likely to succeed. 
I had the problem after upgrading/updating Windows 10 (creators/anniv./.. update).I had a backup on my target (networkshare) already of my Windows 10 machine. Only one image is allowed of Windows in there. I guess that after upgrade it detects that it is a different Windows (not sure), and this might be the reason why it fails.