The real reason is because it would be too disruptive for other passengers to have all kinds of people yakking in their phones.
Nowadays most wires and instruments are properly shielded (as cell phones are not the only source of electromagnetic stuff and it's better to take precautions before anything goes wrong.
They ask you to keep your phone and other radio equipment off to make sure that the other 1% does not interfere with any of the airliner's communication equipment. It's to make absolutely sure that the plane can operate safely with no outside interference they have to deal with.
The fact that most passengers can't be bothered to put their seats upright tells me that there are plenty who don't turn off their phone as well.  And since airplanes haven't been falling from the sky, I'd say interference is nil.
So clearly there really is a possibility of interference.  Now whether it is sufficient to be problematic, I think the FAA's laxity on this issue answers that question.
99% of cell phones (and all electronic devices) will cause absolutely zero ill effects on an airplane.
Basically cell phones generate a lot of electromagnetic noise. When a conductor is in a changing magnetic (or electormagnetic) field a current will be induced. That's the basic reason why cell phones can interfere with instruments, basically with everything that involves signals passed over wires.
Some laptops experience this as well.  Leave your BB sitting next to it, and as certain data packets come in, the laptop speakers make some odd noises, even when muted.  
Although not an answer to your question, I do believe that even if you were allowed to use your cell phones, you would have serious problems with the service.  When you move between cells, your signal is handed off to the next cell - traveling that high & fast, I believe you would mostly likely have serious hand off problems.
That's probably also why the ban is still in place, as it is better to be safe than sorry. The Mythbusters once ran a few tests and concluded that cell phones can and will interfere with certain instruments in an airplane, though they couldn't reproduce it with a recently-built aircraft. But risking one case where instruments are not properly shielded and an aircraft goes down is probably worse than simply banning all cell phones.
I'd say cell phones cause almost no interference.  After all, do you think everyone remembers to turn off their phones before take off?  It's not like the airlines have a way to check.
1) If it were really true that cell phones could have a serious affect, the FAA would simply mandate that all airplane equipment be shielded such that it cannot be affected by cell phones.  This is usually how the FAA works.  It does not rely on sheep (aka Passengers) to actually listen and turn off their phones (as noted by Paul L in another answer).  
2) Using a Blackberry as an example, put it next to a telephone (Old IBM ROLM PBX phones are REALLY vulnerable to this) and send yourself an email.  You will soon hear some crazy interference, off the HUNG UP phone!  