I'm ok with 74F but I wouldn't get much above 80F in a data center - poorly built electronic equipment (and that's basically everything built by every manufacturer in the last two decades) may fail or become flaky above 80 degrees. The old idea of keeping everything at -60F was based on even crappier equipment - things built back when tubes and selenium components were common. This equipment would eat itself if it got a little hot. Nowadays, it just stops working correctly.
In simple terms, the electricity your gear consumes exits as heat. Work out, or measure if you have the gear, how much you're using. If in doubt get an electrician to measure it for you. It's a small investment that can save you a lot of money later.
(I'm not sure why, but I seem to be the counterpoint to chris S on many things. Nothing personal Chris, it's just that my experience seems to run counter to yours. I'm a fellow old guy, but man, we must come from opposite universes.)
Youo are going to need 2 AC units. I don't think you'll find something permanent or semipermanent to be cost effective so you are looking at a portable solution.  I don't think you should count on using the intake from building air as a vent if they turn it off at 6pm. I'd consider venting it out the door, if you can't cut a hole into an adjacent space.  Also remember you are not trying to cool the room, just the intake air on the servers/equiptment, meaning that it's ok for the room temp to be 90s so long as the intake air is in the 70s.  
The single exception: If your electrical wiring and panel aren't really cut out for your needs (as in you might need to arc weld or run an exchange server, for instance), keeping the A/C below 85F is a good idea - breakers typically pop based on thermal expansion, and a hot breaker box will trip when it gets warm. 
For scaling the A/C I suggest talking to the A/C people, who know a lot more about this stuff than we do. Tell them the load you're currently running, after adding a bit more than than the maximum you can reasonably expect it to ever be. Don't forget to mention that it needs be be running 24/7. I actually prefer to have multiple units, each of which can handle the normal load, even if it's straining to do so. That way you can more easily deal with a failed unit.
I've used one of the portable units in the past, and during peak temperatures, we were able to keep things about 20 degrees cooler.  We'd also put some insulation on top of the drop ceilings, which seemed to help quite a bit.  On a side note, you're lucky for the lack of windows - this "server room" had an entire wall of windows, which we went to great lengths to block off, as it was a huge source of additional heat.
You really don't want to be stuffing about with this sort of thing or relying on guesswork. Just for starters I suggest you get that ceiling finished off and fitted with an exhaust fan or two.