Basically, determine your needs first, then check how much you're willing to invest. My new system did cost me about € 5200 and it's mostly used at home for just hobby-projects. But it's worth every cent in my opinion.
If you actually doing concurrent programming, you don't run into lock contention issues with the number of cores we have today on the desktop.  You do have to start worrying about that when you get to 16+ cores.  There are Azul systems with 768 cores and they are all doing useful work.  Diminishing returns is usually a temporary issue.  The future usually fixes it.
I myself am rendering a lot of artwork, both as hobby and to include in some of the software I create. So that's why I ended up with a new Quad-core system. (And a dual-monitor system, and a NVidea card with 1 GB and a system with 12 GB RAM, running a 64-bits Vista version.)
Ultimately software needs to be written multi-threaded to use the cores and get the full performance out of the machine. The applications you mention, Photoshop and most 3D games are already written to use the hardware and have been for years.
Stuff like this IMO is a waste of braincells. I've never heard of anyone complain about having too much CPU, memory or hard disk. If you're building or buying a computer you need to know what kind of workload you expect and what your budget is. In 95% of cases, budget is the limiting factor of any PC design choice.
Multi-cores are going to be ubiquitous in the future, (if they aren't already), and Microsoft and Apple are working very hard to make using all the cores as easy as possible for developers.
Do I notice a difference? Well, when running multiple applications, my system tends to stay responsive, unless every application needs disk or network access. It doesn't make much difference when compiling new projects or even when running the more common applications. But as I said, I do render a lot and it's nice to know that I can render two different images at the same time and still have enough power in my system to play chess or browse the Internet without any noticeable delays.
I personally don't look at the number of cores, but I look for the sweet price / performance spot when it comes to processors.
In your case, games are the highest-performance workload that you'll be doing. Photoshop is a red herring... at work we buy $350-450 PCs (Dell 760) and the graphics guys are thrilled with the performance that they're getting.
Will there be more software which can use these multiple cores? It depends on the need for using multi-threading techniques in those applications. It is funny, though, but Internet Explorer 8 creates new processes for every new tab page or window that you open, so it will be able to perform faster on a quad-core system, except for it's need to use the network resources. You could have 50 tabs open in IE8 and still slow down to a crawl simply because your internet connection is slow...
Normally Intel have their high end processor with their highest clock speed, and number of cores that is really expensive. I then look at the lower clock speed versions of that processor and find that there is a reasonably priced high end processor. Not the highest end processor, but still a really good one for a good price.
I have a few dual core development machines and rarely do I see both cores being used.  I would save yourself the money and stick with dual core.  
If I were you, I'd splurge on the video card, then go to NewEgg's CPU section, sort by the number of reviews, and pick one of the top-5 CPUs that fits your budget after buying the video card. If you can't afford one of the top-5, you'll need to adjust your budget, buy a cheaper video card or go for a cheaper processor.
I then take the money I would have spent on the processor and use it to put as much memory in the machine as it will take / I can afford.