A USB2 port can safely provide up to 500 ma at its limit range. A USB3 port can safely provide up to 900 ma by specs. 
"Charger Doctor" is one brand of USB ammeter, targeted at seeing how much power a USB charger is actually supplying, but it works on any USB device. However, be aware that it's not the most precise ammeter, it will read zero for very low power devices, such as keyboards. (With my plain keyboard, it reads zero, even when actively typing.)
(As usual, the problem with the answers here is that they provide silly textbook answers while ignoring hard realities...)
If you always believe what you read, then the USB spec says you're fine and that no device will ever exceed or 'overload' the board, however, reality...
The cordless mouse and keyboard adapter that works on the USB port can require about 30 ma to maybe 50 ma. 
From a little research the LEDs on a keyboard are similar to these flangeless 3mm leds. Based off the specifications there - it would be 3.5V at 20ma, o7 or ~7mW per key. Assuming a 101 key keyboard its 700mW for the leds alone. Considering USB 2.0 does up to 2.5 amps, You should have quite a bit of headroom   
(source: https://geekhack.org/index.php?topic=44092.0  ...only because it says it better and more succintly than I could myself)
Even if, the usb is correctly implemented and there is no danger from overload, if you know that you like to have many usb devices plugged in at once, it is a good idea to buy a powered usb hub since Without the external power source, you might get a "USB Power limit exceeded" warning on your computer. (again, I'm not going to argue maths, because it won't help you, how often have I made the mistake of trusting what I read, only to find this or that exception the rule, too many.)
Why not check yourself? Many computer motherboards are able to tell you the power consumption of a usb port via the control panel.
A USB optical mouse can require about 80 ma to 100 ma when there is mouse activity. The small defused laser LED and imaging device on the underside can require about 30 ma alone. 
(sadly, there are risks with this solution because of some lazy motherboard manufacturers, you may or may not have issues recognizing the hub at startup)
The old PS2 keyboards from the late 1970 to about 2000 before USB was popular can require in to the range of 150 ma. 
Go into the control panel, system > device manager and find the USB port or hub in question in the list. You'll then see power consumption figures like this:
The lit keyboards have various designs depending on the manufacture for the lighting technique. They use a number of LEDs placed around under the transparent keys. The LED light is spread by using various optical design technics. The total power consumption in these types of keyboards can approach 160 ma to 200 ma depending on the design. 
So, here is my advice, if you have an older computer, one built with cheaper components (or a cheaper off brand keyboard) and there is any question in your mind that your computer "may not be able to handle it" then you should look into buying a separate usb hub which is externally and separately powered. (not a y connector)
From what I can remember, the average USB keyboard should require approximately 120 ma to about 140 ma.  This is with the standard 3 LED's (Cap Lock, Scroll Lock, and Num Lock) lit up. These LEDs require very little power since they are only simple indicators.  