I'm sure the 27" iMac will serve four people just fine. Quad core and 8 GB of RAM will help, if your budget allows that.
Either of these servers could be installed on your iMac, or they can be installed on an old Linux machine.  If you've got an old clunker that you can run Ubuntu on, that would be ideal.
One important thing: store your shared files in external disk, either FireWire or preferably mirroring NAS. Hard disk is commonly the bottleneck of any modern computer, so using the iMac's internal disk as a shared drive is not good idea and will definitely slow down things.
I have been happily using OS X Server as a workstation over the last month.  I can't see any difference with Mac OS X.
I appreciate that having a server that sits in the corner and does not a lot is very frustrating from a financial point of view - perhaps a second hand Mac Pro or an Macbook Pro might be an alternative - the great Joel Spolsky himself claims to have used a laptop with a faulty screen as his first server!
However, I'm not sure you need OS X Server at all.  You can use a regular iMac with OS X pre-installed.  Get a big external hard drive and share it using regular file sharing over AFP.  You didn't mention if you want to tie all your user accounts together with Open Directory.  For an office of 4 people, I don't think you need to.  You can easily just create accounts for each of them on your iMac, and they can all log in with AFP.
Also I'd agree with @Marko that using OS X Server as a workstation is also not great - most apps will run (as there isn't much difference from their point of view) but none will be supported.
Administration tasks are much simpler with OS X Server than with OS X, at least for standard configurations.
It is indeed hard to find much information on OS X Server.  As far as I can tell, Mac OS X Server is essentially Mac OS X + some Unix software + some nice graphical interfaces to this software (located in Applications -> Utilities -> Server).  To tell you the whole story: the User Migration assistant is the only piece of software that I could not find on OS X Server (and it apparently should not be used with OS X Server).
I've used OSX Server for all of the things you listed.  I usually test on Mac minis, and then deploy on Xserves (never on an iMac though).  Regardless, I would not recommend using it as your day-to-day workstation.
You could probably make this work, however you would want to make sure that there were no software compatibility issues, for instance if you want to use CS4 it doesn't state explicitly on the adobe website that it will run on OSX Server.
In your case as @svenw & @Chopper3 mentions, get a Mac Mini server.  You should never use a server as a workstation it will just cause no end of problems, it will get turned off, applications will crash, it may even get infected with malware - far from ideal for a server.
Setting up a Mac server is a fairly simple affair if you just want simple services, however once you want something a bit complicated or unusual then it goes from a nice shiny GUI to hand editing plist/conf files.
I really like Mac OS X Server for a lot of things.  Particularly for Open Directory, User/Computer/Preference management, and Portable/Network home directories.  But for some services, the open-source offerings are simply better.