A more complicated, but potentially better way would be to create a proxy program. Keep all file extensions, but have them be opened by the proxy program. Have your program examine the binary and choose which type of file it is and which program to start. This will require you to spend some time writing your program, which may or may not be worth it to you.
Windows does not launch files based on any information in the file - building a database for that would take an incredible amount of work and programming.  The only true way to identify a file is by the binary signatures in the file, if the file even has it, and this is up to the software author to implement.
You may have trouble with an "Open File" dialogue in your program, depending on how it is set up. But if you have a single folder where all of your files are you should be able to just use that.
Microsoft Visual Studio implements your last idea. When you launch a .sln file, a small stub checks the solution version number and launches the correct version of Visual Studio (if you've got multiple versions installed).
In Windows, files are passed to the program you specify for a particular file extension.  Windows determines a file's extension as the substring which follows the last occurrence of a period, so it's not possible with the file names you posted.
Of course, coordination here is a bit easier since (A) the file format is designed for this and (B) they're all versions of the same software, from the same manufacturer.
To start, you can rename one of the types of files to have a new extension, and use the "open with" dialogue to set a default program to open those types of files.
BTW: The less-known OS 'GEOS' (which was a Win3 competitor at its tiem and far ahead) had a fixed 256 bytes header for all files where the creating application, icon an copyright notices were stored (along with a free field for own notes). As this was part of the file and not the file system or an OS dictionary, it was transparent when files were moved across file systems or even to a different OS (there was an explorer extension for W95).
Of course, this aproach is not automatic. One has to know the proper application. But for file types where the database based detection would fail (e.g. text files or other files without a "magic number"), you always have the choice.
You have to either re-name the files (and give them unique file extensions), or write a batch file to launch the appropriate application for you.  For more details, see this Technet article.
A quick solution is to add additional context entries to the explorer context menu. Or to use the 'open with' context entry. The first is more comfortable as one can add call parameters and specify 'telling' names. It also allows opening a file with different versions of the same program (if installed parallel).
This doesn't deal with the renaming problem though. But you simplify things by making a specific folder where you put all of the files from one of the programs. Then you can write a script to automatically rename files in that folder to your new file extension.