I have my Windows 7 (also 64-bit) virtual machine with all my various software and Windows development tools.
One thing I'd consider doing is partitioning your SSD, though. If you store your audio sessions on the extra partition, you can connect it directly to the VM or change it back to the host OS, if you need. This will keep your audio files outside of virtual disks and will give you better I/O speeds.
I'm envious of your 16GB RAM!  what machine did you get?  No budget for one right now, but eventually...   (other than memory, this notebook works very well - big screen, 2 hard drives, etc)
VMware released Workstation 8 recently - I'm considering whether to upgrade or switch to VirtualBox.
Mostly it works well - I only have 4GB in this notebook and that's a limitation - I can easily run one VM at a time, but running multiple VMs means I have to limit the RAM in those VMs.  Occasionally something bangs away at the disk and locks up the machine for 30 seconds to even several minutes.  Firefox can cause that - I have a tendency to open hundreds of tabs; eats memory and things go haywire for a while.
I have had additional VMs for work (yet another different toolset), including running multiple VMs with a "internal" (within VMware) network so I can simulate multiple machines talking to each other.
I actually started using virtual machine when I had multiple toolsets and was concerned they'd interfere with each other.  (it's happened in the past)
Either will do what you want, so long as you have the hardware to allocate CPU/DISK/RAM to the virtual machine. I would suggest VirtualBox to try, if only because it's free and will let you see if running a VM will work out for you. VMware might allow for better integration with the underlying OS/Hardware, but I lack the funding to give you a proper analysis on the product. XD
I will frequently create a temporary VM to try out some software - so I don't pollute my regular machines (VMs) with software and then removing it.   After trying it, just delete the temporary VM.
I use VMware Workstation 7 and do pretty much what you're thinking of - on my notebook I run Windows 7 64-bit host, and install very little software on the host - I do everything in virtual machines.