When trying to update to Windows 8.1 from 8 through the Windows Store I get the following error message:
What is the best way for me to install the Windows 8.1 update without changing the security settings on my system? Because I really don't want to change my account to a admin account and I don't want to go through the hassle of creating a new admin user and then create new Microsoft Account so I can log into the Windows Store. 
It is no problem to make yourself an admin for the purpose of upgrading. Just remember to switch back to a normal user later.
I run as a limited user account for security reasons and I have enabled the built in Administrator account to do admin related tasks. This often just requires a prompt where I have to enter the admin account password to proceed. So after seeing this error message, I logged into the Administrator and attempted to install the update through the store, only to get an error (paraphrased) "Built in Administrator account can't run the Windows Store.
Is there any alternative install to the Windows Store? Can I safely temporarily make my account and admin and then reduce it back to a normal account? What is my best option here?
http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows8_1-windows_install/windows-81-will-not-download-from-the-store/d3c57b8b-acd2-4bd9-82e4-1b51b206e311?page=1&rtAction=1391522011168
Now, login under your account (that has admin privileges) and then go to the corner until the floating menu comes up and choose settings.  From settings choose change PC settings at the bottom.  Then, click on "windows update" at the bottom of the right hand side of your screen.  Check for updates now and it will take a few minutes, but they will find one (KB2871389).  There is a message telling you that it will download automatically in a few days, but ignore that, click on the link for one important update, and choose install now (or some such thing).
First, find where all the updates for windows are listed.  Go to Control Panel ---> Programs.  Then under Programs and Features, you'll see a link called "View Installed Updates".  Under Microsoft Windows, scroll until you find KB2871389.  Uninstall it, and then accept the prompt to reboot your computer. 