For the laptop, try the Windows Mobility Center, which has several controls on it, including one for brightness.
I still had to restart my computer 3 times for the "none" high contrast theme to load at start up.  I suppose it took that long for it to save to my Microsoft account.
In the 1803 update there is no option in the(settings->ease of access->high contrast) theme of "None" to apply to your Microsoft account, so that it might save to the Cloud/One Drive or whatever it backs up too.  That option was removed from 1709 version.
  Once that was done, I turn off sync settings to Microsoft account in the settings->updates, I think.
I believe, but do not know, that the 1806 update turns "sync themes to Microsoft account" back on by default.
  Once I was on that version of windows, I went to high contrast themes, selected a theme, clicked on the apply high contrast theme button (this was so it saved to my Microsoft account), then selected the high contrast theme of "none" and clicked apply.  Now it was saved to my Microsoft account.
After 6 hours with Microsoft support (with an out come of "you need to call your manufacturer, you probably have a hardware malfunction." or "your Nvidia Drivers are not yet updated for the new 1803 update") I got them to set me up with a USB drive with the 1709 version.
Now you can run the Mobility Center on your desktop, and there would be a brightness control there also.
I had the same issue turns out it wasn't a display driver issue at all it was just the monitor driver. Go into device manager then under monitors check what your monitor says mine said PNP Monitor Standard I had to update the driver and use the manually select from a list option then select Generic PNP Monitor after that everything worked like before. 
This reverted my colors back from neon, having to ware sunglasses to use google, to the nice Matted but full colors that I was used too.
 No matter what I did(reformat, re-install drivers) it always reverted back to a high contrast them at start up. This was because my Microsoft account was auto applying the theme at sign in, then wallah!  High contrast is on even with a fresh install of windows. 
I don't know if you have fixed the issue, but as for me, the problem was that my high contrast theme, which I accidentally tried, saved to my Microsoft account.