I tried putting a Windows disk in the dvd drive, and continued with the boot, but the disk did not get recognized. Even though the BIOS was set to check for optical media before the hard drive. Back to the error screen.
You also said you had a problem with booting from optical drive. Based on the fact that you have upgraded to Windows 7, I take it that you know how to do this properly. I would double check and just make sure that it is set correctly and the disk is bootable.
However, I don't want to scare you, you should start by making sure that the BIOS recognises both the optical and hard drive, then try booting a different disk to rule that out.
Is this a matter of replacing both the hard drive and dvd drive, or might it be an indication of a bigger problem?
Apart from that, I have seen power surges or similar take out single chips that make it hard to track down faults. If the machine is over 3 years old, it is possible that it is using a IDE optical and hard drive, so a failure in a controller chip could take out both.
So I restart, see the initial start screen (HP) and enter the BIOS. The hard drive and dvd drive appear to be listed, but the names are gibberish text.
The above all only deals with the optical drive, whether you fix it or not, I think the hard drive is bad or has a boot problem. You may have luck formatting/repairing/reinstalling on it or it could be a physical problem requiring a new one... or again, lastly, it could be the motherboard.
this comes fom either the FORMS virus or the NOINT virus.  they are difficult to remove and corrupt every disk and cd that comes in contact with your computer.  it makes a hidden partition that will not be deleted by formatting,   you can see it and zero it out by running disk edit (DE.exe).  but you will usually reinstall it with your reinstall because it is hidden in your cd's and disks
This is a >3 year-old system: HP a1640n. There have been no issues with it in the past. I added a video card 2 years ago, and more memory 1 year ago, both without issues. There haven't been any recent hardware changes. I did install Win7 in Oct., but there were no issues with that either.
Is the bios working properly, other than the garbled device names?  That would lead me to believe that it's a cable or a problem with the controller.
If the computer would boot from a cd or dvd, I would just figure the hard drive needed replacing. But both being problematic worries me.
Although I have had both a HDD and a DVD drive fail within days, if both failed at the same time I'd guess something else.  You could always try using the HDD or DVD in another computer to see if they're really toast.
I used the computer fine two nights ago, and turned it off. Yesterday, I tried to turn it on, and got the error:
If you can boot - it means that your boot cd/dvd is bad. If not, then it is possible of either a bad coincidence and the optical drive is bad or your motherboard is.