For in-rack patching, I'd always go with buying cables off the shelf as it is cheaper and easier to buy them in. I'm a trained network engineer and my time is relatively expensive - I could be doing higher-value work such as configuring routers and switches. Another benefit of buying pre-made cables is that the quality of moulded-on strain-relief is better than anything that I can make myself, and if I buy them with anti-snag clips, it makes decommissioning so much easier, too. Have you ever timed yourself making and testing a cable and factored in your hourly-wage to figure out how much it really cost?
Where I work and have worked in the past it makes no sense to keep a large stock of cables of various lengths "just in case". It's very rare that I need more than a couple of cables at a time. When I need a cable I need it now, not when the next supplier delivery arrives, so I make them as required.
For infrastructure cabling (under floors, through ceilings) I would always get a cabling contractor to come in and manufacture a solution to length - these guys are crimping and punching down all day and will do a far better quality job. I can also ask them to do things like clearly label each end of the cabling, that I would never bother to do myself.
When I was in my old job, I had this exact same question.  We initially had our student assistants make all the cables we needed, but we realized that it took time and they hated it.  Eventually, we started buying cables of standard length, but kept a spool and ends on hand for situations where we needed an exact length (or when the pre-made ran out).  That ended up being a good solution because our students still got some experience working with cables, but they could spend more time focusing on doing real work.
I am work in an environment with several thousand servers, and where we can afford to keep an inventory of various lengths in 6 colours. I can understand that if you don't have budget or storage space, then it would be useful to be able to make your own for an urgent job, but the few times I have made my own, they have been appalling quality. When I've bought in cables, I've rarely had any quality issues (only 2 duff new cables out of thousands I've used).
Having a (relatively cheap) cable tester means we can check that we've crimped correctly, and also helps diagnose general network issues; sometimes wall sockets are damaged by a 6-pin modular plug on the end of a phone (which we'll re-crimp with an 8-pin plug), and it helps us rule out "bad cabling" vs. a misbehaving switch or desktop machine.
We generally buy cables, but there are some exceptions. My job includes deploying desktop hardware to end users, and often we don't have enough wall points to patch all of the computers and phones (we're not using a VOIP PABX yet), so we end up making converter cables to run 100Mb + phone over the same cable run.
When doing one-offs I can make up a cable in much less time than I can create a purchase order, get it approved and placed. Cutting the cable to length, fitting 2 plugs and testing takes around 90 seconds (2 minutes on a bad day).