Asking how to do your backup plan is kinda like asking 10 grandmothers how to make the best chicken noodle soup.  You'll get 10 different answers but all of them will agree on the basic ingredients.
Secondly, since the diff backups each weeknight will probably only be about 5Gb or so at most, do I need to put in five LTO2 tapes (which hold up to 400Gb) into the media pool, one tape for each night? Or is one sufficient, since it could theoretically hold many weeks worth of diffs?
What I don't understand is if BE selects a new tape for each day, or if it will just continue to append to the same tape until it's full and then roll over to the next one.
I agree that you need more then 2 backup sets.  I consider 4 to be a reasonable number (so you have approximately a months worth of tapes to go back to if something goes haywire).  When you set up backups in Backup Exec you have the choice of either appending the data or overwriting the data.  You also have a choice of what to do if you said append but the tape is full.  In addition you can control the overwrite protection settings on your media pool so you can prevent a tape that was just used from being accidently overwritten.  One tip, I tend to find that the tapes don't always get changed when they are supposed to (because someone is out sick, or on vacation or there is a holiday), so if possible I try to have two sets of tapes in the drive.  The ones for this week, and the ones for NEXT week.  So that you have a full week to pull out the current backups before things get messed up.  Also, you should take a look at whether 6 nights of differentials will fit on one tape.  If they don't, but 6 nights of incrementals would you might want to consider incrementals.  It increases the time it takes to do a full restore (especially towards the end of the week), but it could be worth it if it reduces the number of tapes required.
In my opinion, Backup & Recovery does a pretty good job of talking about the strengths and weaknesses of different options you may (or may not) choose to implement.
Perhaps the easier question to ask, is, if you had the backup equipment and servers to backup listed above, what would your backup design be?
We each have different systems and needs, so we are all likely to give different recommendations. Do as KPWINC suggests and do some reading up. Then when you do implement it make sure you do it in a way that can be readily modified should you later determine a different system would be better.
The biggest weakness I see in you plan is two backup sets of tapes.  Three sets are considered an absolute minimum.  I generally use at least five sets. 
I'm in the process of designing my first ever backup scheme. I'm completely new to managing data backup, and there are some concepts that I don't totally understand. Here's what I've got so far, and what equipment I'll be using.
You are only backing up a small amount of data, so if it's practical to do so run full backup each day. Backups will fail from time to time, for many reasons. Having a full backup on each tape not only simplifies restores but improves your DR chances.
I will be using two sets of tapes, the first for Week 1, and then another for Week 2, which will be alternated back and forth every other week.
There are only three servers that I will be backing up, total data is approx 200Gb. I will be doing weekly full backups on Saturdays, followed by differential backups Mon thru Fri nights. There will also be an end of month full backup that will be stored off site for DR purposes.
So my question is this, how many tapes should I be using in each set? Do I have to use eight since the backup drive accepts up to eight tapes? Will it be thrown off if I put less in?