It's unable to resolve the superclass for Lcom/badlogic/drop/Drop and unable to resolve Lcom/badlogic/gdx/backends/android/AndroidApplication
Did you look at the "Running the game on Android" section of the documentation you linked? Are you sure the AndroidApplication backend is present?
Generally, this problem (missing GDX libraries at run-time on Android) is because the "libs" directory isn't setup exactly as specified in the project doc.  The directory must be called "libs" and it must contain the GDX backend and both sets of ARM libraries.
If the classes are there, it would suggest to me that you have problems with your development environment. Either Java/JVM, your Android SDK or the build of libgdx you have is corrupt. Since it works in the Java Project like you said, one would think that maybe trying to reinstall the Android SDK may resolve your issues.
The behavior is odd because since you don't get a compile error on Drop.java, it appears that you have your project set up properly. For the Dalvik DexClassLoader to fail, it appears that something is getting messed up in the build process. If you really want to investigate, take the .apk and run it through dex2jar and open it with a Java Decomplier and see if there are classes missing. 
If the Android project compiles correctly but is missing classes when run, it may be because ADK r17 (the current version atm) doesn't include the external game project as part of the build. There's an extra step you have to do that's still lacking from most of the existing documentation for project setup. It's described here. Copying from that site, the steps are:
Why won't it run properly on the android emulator even though it runs fine on the desktop application?
So I'd say there's an issue with the badlogic library. You may want to read the text files it wrote out to see their stack traces. Perhaps that'll give you more of a clue.
So I finished tweaking a tutorial called Rain Catcher and I ran the desktop application.  It works fine.  I then proceeded to run the application using the android emulator the game then crashes.