If I had the choice of having just one Domain Controller, or running another DC say on an SQL box, then I would take that option.
However, management of it is a nightmare, and my preferred rule is "a DC is a DC and nothing else goes on it".  These are your most important servers, and if your AD goes funny you will have a horrible time getting it back right.  If you can, give yourself the best chance of avoiding this by having dedicated DC roles.  If you can't, beg, scream, whimper, bribe, threaten, prophesy, or whatever it takes to put yourself in a position where you can.
I would generally run DNS and DHCP on Domain Controller(s), and have at least two DCs. Personally, I have a virtual DC running on two of my virtual hosts (running VMware ESXi, three virtual hosts total) and one physical as well. All DCs are DNS servers, and two of them are DHCP servers (serving half of the range each). Virtualization makes it easy (and depending on how you pay for Windows licensing, affordable) to have task-specific VMs, and I much prefer splitting things out as rebooting one server won't affect others.
My personal opinion is that for stability you need a minimum of three domain controllers which allows you to split the operation master roles, and you should always have at least two global catalogues - but taking into account that the infrastucture master shouldn't be a GC.
You can and it works.  I have about 40 branch offices and - for political reasons - a management decision was made to give each a full server infrastructure.  For financial reasons it was a single-server environment in each, so it's all DC/File/Exchange (this was in the Windows 2000 days).
I would try and add only something like print and/or file serving to a DC if possible, in addition to DNS and DHCP. Others would have to be weighed carefully...and if possible, stick even a desktop/low end server in as a secondary DC/DNS only box if you must mix on the primary hardware. Even non-redundant hardware is likely to be up if your primary is down and vice versa (whether it's for a reboot or a crash).
In fact, I'd probably rather run a Virtual Server than actually turning any other working server into a domain controller - even if it was just running on a workstation.
However, I'm running SBS 2003 at another (smaller) office and it functions well on a beefy server, although the reboot scheduling issue is sometimes annoying. SBS is physical, but I have a second server running VMware ESXi that has a Windows VM which is also a DC so I have a seconary (second DC is allowed with SBS as long as SBS holds FSMO roles). I hate having one DC, it would make recovery more difficult and any downtime longer!
Sure, just install VMware, and on it Debian and you have a great multi-purpose server. That is, if the load on the host is small enough.
Microsoft Small Business Server is AD + Exchange + File server  + router/VPN Server + Sharepoint + SQL Server.. and more all rolled into a single server.  So i wouldn't say its 'best practice' to have every function on a different server.  For small operations it doesnt make sense to run everything in different hardware. 