<rant>Why do people hide their real domain names here?  It's not like it is confidential data, and in this (and most) cases, it would actually help answer the problem at hand!  Otherwise we have to play a question and answer game.</rant>
I apologize if this is a basic question, but I'm not sure what to do here. How do I get web traffic to be directed to 12.15.16.91 whether it comes from www.thedomain.com or thedomain.com, but keep the client's email integrity intact? 
For posterity, you should also confirm that the MX record for the domain is associated with "mail.thedomain.com." and not "thedomain.com.".
It is perfectly acceptable to send mail for thedomain.com from mail.thedomain.com. Since mail is dealt with via a separate MX record, it is my usual practice to treat the bare domain record (thedomain.com) as a "web" property.
My initial thought was to change the IP address for thedomain.com to 12.15.16.91, or the entry for ftp and www; problem is, whenever I do this, he complains that he stops getting mail at his  @thedomain.com email address and changes the thedomain.com IP back to the same as that for mail.thedomain.com.  
The problem for me is that his www.thedomain.com and thedomain.com entries don't point to the same IP address, which means that you can only access his site via www.thedomain.com and not without the www.  Search engines (and users like me that prefer to type web addresses without www) don't like this.  
I'd go a little bit farther and say that, while it's likely the client has an MX record, his mail server is misconfigured. They're mistakenly thinking that the mail server has to advertise itself as thedomain.com to send mail from thedomain.com. 
Sounds like they don't have an MX record set up for the domain.  Get that added and pointed to the proper location (probably mail.thedomain.com) and you should have no problem redirecting thedomain.com.
I'm a web developer with a client that came to me needing a site redesign, and part of that included SEO work. (I hope this is the right place to ask this question!)  The problem is that the client already owned his domain name prior to approaching me and actually has his DNS hosted at zoneedit.com, which doesn't provide the nicest DNS interface that I've ever seen.
It is possible to configure multiple A records to resolve a single hostname to multiple IP addresses - but doing so will cause the DNS server to round-robin between the IP addresses. So this will only make the problem worse (because now his failures will become sporadic). I do not advise this. The first step you should take is to confirm what host his e-mail client is configured to connect to.
It sounds like his e-mail client may be configured to connect to POP3 or IMAP services using a hostname of "thedomain.com" rather than "mail.thedomain.com".