For the use case you've presented I'd create a single RAID 6 array. If a simple file server was to receive a noticeable benefit by using RAID 10 it's time to look at splitting the data. The same applies to performance concerns posed by having a single drive/array holding both the OS and the file store.
Because I don't know exactly what you'll be doing with those RAID sets, I can't say if you'll gain any performance advantage running the OS separate or not. I can say that there are so many other reasons for running the OS on separate disks that you'd be crazy not to dedicate 2 disks in a mirror regardless of performance. Also, SSDs would I think be overkill for the OS.
Performance wise I would guess that SSDs would be overkill. The base OS portions are not going to be read from disk very often as they will spend most of their life in cache (unless I am wrong in assuming you do not anticipate much, if any, paging RAM to/from disk type activity). You might be better of moving the extra cost into other parts of your budget. Having said that, the SSDs certainly won't do any harm so if the question is cost neutral or there abouts (i.e. the SSDs would cost little/no) and you don't need the extra space offered by the equivalently priced spinning disks you might notice a little performance boost (though really, your other arrays are were the main I/O action is going to be). And if do you anticipate an appreciable amount of swapping activity then small SSDs would definitely be better than larger spinning disks (though make sure you get models with good random write performance - some SSDs are not as good in this respect as they are generally expected to be).
I would predict installation on separate drives is the best but I'm interested in the performance. The server in question will have 8 cores (2.4GHz ea.), 24GB RAM, and ~16TB of usable space of server-class drives in RAID10. There is also a subsytem of an ~equivalent size for backup. I will be running CPU/memory intesive applications on this server in addition to it being file storage for my work (research lab).
As to whether it should be a seperate Raid 10 or Raid 1 or what not. Between the 2, you wont see a major speed difference if they are the same speed drives.
I would like opinions, or facts, both preferably, on whether it's ok to install a server's OS on the RAID array or not.
IF it is better to have the OS on separate drives should I go for 150GB velociraptors in RAID1 or smallish SSD drives in RAID1? Money is unfortunately a factor as I think I'm close to maxing my budget as it is.
IF I install the OS (haven't decided which one, probably Ubuntu or Fedora or some other good linux distro) on separate drives will there be any performance problems if they aren't configured in RAID10? 
What it boils down to is, if you need RAID 10 or split arrays now because RAID 6 isn't performing well enough, you're really going to be up the proverbial creek when the demands on the server increase, as they always will.
If by RAID10 you mean Linux's "fancy" direct RAID10 driver (with its numerous potentially handy tweaks) then one factor that may affect your decision is that most installers for stable distor releases at the moment do not support creating such arrays at install time (and may not have the driver present to install onto a pre-created array if that type). Most can create and install onto a traditional RAID1+0 nested arrangement though.
I'm sure some linux guru's will come in here and give you better advise as it pertains to Linux, sadly that is not me, but.
I would suggest a separate small array for the base OS if the budget for this is not an issue, especially if you expect the machine to need to swap (though I'm guessing you have specified that much RAM in order to reduce, if not remove, the need for paging to disk) as the separate drives will mean application/data IO activity and the kernels swapping activity will not be competing with each other for time in control of the same sets of drive heads. Also if something drastic happens and your large array goes properly offline, having the OS separate may make recovery attempts a little easier.