You appear to not be sure that one or more of the devices connected to the ES700 is the cause of the issue.  So, eliminate them all as a potential suspect... or reveal them to be the trouble.
I also understand this might not be possible to do... this kind of test, since the ES550 has different output plugs from the ES700.  That is unfortunate, since from what you are describing, the problem might not be the consoles.  The problem might be the DC power adapters that the consoles use.  Even if the consoles are not on, the DC power adapters are still drawing power.
Connect the ES 700's data cable to a PC.  Install the PowerChute CD if the PC is running Windows or apcaccess (there's a Debian package) if you are running Debian Linux (you also need to edit the configuration file afterwards to tell it it use a "smart" USB cable afterward).
Have you contacted APC yet for help troubleshooting the problem? If you contact APC, they should be able to walk you through the self-test procedure. (I think the test procedure is usually to power it off, then hold the button for many seconds after powering it back on.)
It's possible the unit has been damaged by one or more surges. Surge protection circuitry is often designed so it will absorb surges but will continue to let power through even after the surge protection effectiveness has been diminished.
It's also possible the new battery is defective. If you take the battery to a battery outlet, they will test it for free (at least, they do in the US). If the battery is good, then the only thing left are the electronics in the UPS, the wall outlet, and the devices you're plugging into the UPS.
Now... to be sure, you would need to do the reverse as well.  That means plugging the PC, TV, and monitor into the ES700.  If the unit is fine, there is no reason why this should not work.  If the unit is not fine... as in the unit (not the battery) is now defective or broken, this could put your devices at risk... so make sure that your APC warranty is good and will cover any damage to your devices.
From your setup, you have a heavier load and demand on the lighter UPS.  The ES550 is a 330 watt UPS, and the ES700 is a 405 watt unit.  The PC, TV and Monitor should be drawing far more power than the game consoles and network switch.  So, take a night for this little experiment.  Plug all of the consoles and the network hub into the ES550.  See if they cause the overload alarm to trip in that unit.  
Either of these will give you a reading of what the current power draw is in realtime.  It should also give you a bit more diagnostic information.  It's entirely possible you might actually be overloading it.  Doesn't the Wii power on when checking updates?  Doesn't the PS3 do the same?  These devices may all be fully powering on without you realizing it.
Try different things, one at a time. You can try plugging the UPS into a few different outlets and/or circuits to eliminate the wall outlet as a problem, and you can try swapping which devices are plugged into each UPS to figure out whether it's one of the devices that's suddenly drawing a lot of power. If none of that helps, then you're back to the electronics in the UPS as the most likely problem.