By the way, I hope "user" is not an actual user name you chose.  Not only does it fail to convey much about the semantics of the role, but you will need to quote it everywhere, which can be something of a bother and lead to confusion when there is a problem.  If you pick a name for the role which is not a keyword and indicates what the role is for, you will probably be happier with the results.
... etc. See the manual for GRANT linked above for full definitions of what the privileges do, which are available on which objects, etc. Take note of the wildcard ALL TABLES and ALL SEQUENCES options.
Hi I'm trying to create a login role (user) with a fairly minimal ability to modify the database. They should be able to select, delete, create triggers, insert and update. I would then like to have multiple accounts which are members of user so they have the same permissions but I can log edits for individual users.
The error message I get is caught by Qt when trying to select some data as a test. When I run the same code as the database owner and superuser I have no problems.
So you can see you don't need to GRANT anything on the database unless you want the user to be able to create schemas, etc. You need to:
I'm not sure that bringing the QtSQL layer into the question helps anyone understand the issue.  If you can show the issue in a session in psql you might attract more answers.
If this seems like too much hassle to do for each table, view, schema, sequence, etc, you can in Pg 9.1 and above use ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES to change the default GRANTs on new objects.
GRANTing ALL permissions for public to the database is mostly redundant (as public has connect, temporary by default, so you'd only be adding CREATE which you probably don't want to do). You probably expected a GRANT ALL on the database to result in a recursive GRANT ALL to contained schemas and tables. GRANT is not recursive, so this doesn't happen; a GRANT ALL on a database just grants CONNECT and TEMPORARY rights to the database, with no effect on contained schemas and tables.
As this gave the previous problems. I tried adding permissions for public for the database but this didn't work either.