So in practice what happens is you open applicationhost.config using notepad++, make a change, save the file; but rather than overwriting the original you are saving a 32bit copy of it in Windows\SysWOW64\inetsrv\Config, therefore you are not making changes to the version that is actually used by IIS. If you navigate to the Windows\SysWOW64\inetsrv\Config you will find the file you just saved.
Another helpful bit to know: when you manually edit the applicationHost.config file (as the tools do) only the applications for which you've changed configuration will recycle. IIS actually takes a snapshot of the config for each application and doesn't update it until something changes for that application.
I know that IIS 7+ now uses XML config files instead of the metabase.  I also know that if I edit a web.config file for a given site, IIS automagically detects the changes and implements any corresponding config changes.
How to get around this? Simple - use a 64bit text editor, such as the normal notepad that ships with windows.
The answer is simple, if not that obvious: win2008 is 64bit, notepad++ is 32bit. When you navigate to Windows\System32\inetsrv\config using explorer you are using a 64bit program to find the file. When you open the file using using notepad++ you are trying to open it using a 32bit program. The confusion occurs because, rather than telling you that this is what you are doing, windows allows you to open the file but when you save it the file's path is transparently mapped to Windows\SysWOW64\inetsrv\Config.
However, does this also apply to the server-level applicationHost.config settings file?  (Its usually located in C:\windows\system32\inetsrv\config.)  Specifically, is it safe to carefully edit this file instead of using IIS Manager or the appcmd command line utility?  I couldn't find anything in the documentation that said it was okay or not okay to do this.
I'm curious because I have to change the bindings for numerous sites from one IP to another.  It would be much faster to simply do a global search and replace for the IP address in the config file instead of manually editing a few dozen sites in the GUI.
You will find a nice introduction to the applicationHost.config file right over at IIS.NET. There's also a thorough Reference for all elements in the IIS config schema.