To do this correctly - creating an answer file, image, and deploying them - you need to look at the OEM Pre-installation Kit - OPK (http://www.microsoft.com/oem/en/installation/downloads/Pages/windows_7_opk.aspx) - but I believe you have to be a partner who has signed an OEM agreement to get the kit.  Further, learning the tools effectively for 7 computers may well be very time consuming unless you expect to be doing this regularly for other clients - then it can make sense.
Addtional info for you future IT management: Volume Activation Management Tool 2.0: http://technet.microsoft.com/library/ff686877.aspx
When installing skip input the key. Install everyting else then make the image and load it to other computers. Then input each key on separate computer.
The security identifier only kicks in when the system is activated or trial expired. So it should be fine even with a standard unlicensed backup iso.
I don't know about using images to setup a computer, but I have built and set up computers.  Software is an important role in doing so.  There are what you call volume discs. They come straight froma manufacturer or government organization.  I had a volume disc of XP that was valued at 500 dollars. Such an operating system will find all the drivers and have no limit on how many or what kind of system your running it on.  Then you can assemble as many computers as you want using the same key over and over. Some boot discs have a limit of like three ,but Microsoft knows that things happen to computers. Operating system discs come with a number you can call when its time to use the key. If its just one or two things that appear different on the computer they will accept the key or give you another one for that computer. 
Create the sys image before the grace period is over, and input key on each separate comp. Not familiar with Acronis Truimage, but should work!
Basically I'm not sure the licensing grants you the right to re-image unless you're an appropriately registered OEM.  Best bet is to contact MS for guidance since the world of licensing is a legal one and no one answering is a lawyer - if they were, they wouldn't be giving legal advice anyway since there are many factors they wouldn't know without knowing a lot more about you/your business.