You can always take the "caveman/non-tech" approach and do like the libraries do... give five pages free then charge 10 cents per page after that.
If students had individual accounts, you could have better accounting and make them responsible for their paper usage.
Essentially you want to curb waste without adding the overhead of accountability, from the sounds of it. If you want people to do this anonymously you could set all the systems to print to PDF with a free PDF printer to a shared directory, then have the "lab monitor" person at the desk be asked to process the print job for them with Acrobat Reader or some other PDF printer. Then all the print jobs are monitored and go through a gatekeeper, but you have more manual overhead.
Do your printers support secure printing? One way we tried was to set the printers to default to secure printing, and the users have to enter a PIN (set at print time) before their print jobs are actually output.
When you have non-tech-savvy users in a lab using a printer, especially without accountability, waste is going to be a problem you can't really solve without either adding overhead of users being tied to print jobs for accountability (which still won't stop them from wasting things like crazy) or manpower (having someone act as a "gatekeeper" for every print job) or just spending a lot of money on reams of paper and accepting the waste.
Depending on your printer you may be able to set it to print in an econo-mode / draft quality which would use far less ink. This would seem to me to be the simplest and easiest way to reduce cost.
If you have a lab person in charge my vote is to go with having them print everything that's needed or encourage people to turn in assignments electronically instead of on paper; you don't say what environment your lab is (college, public school, libraries...). Another option is to look and see if you can limit the print job size to a certain number of pages. I don't know of any direct products that do this. Anyone trying to print out a book or large presentation will be forced to manually print out several small print jobs instead of one large job, and sometimes the extra effort dissuades users from being quite so careless.