This would be all and good if it were anywhere close to accurate.  I double- and trouble-checked it.  Tried multiple known good logins.  The IIS manager allows me to view the file tree in its window, it's only the browser that kicks me out.
Our developer computers live in a completely separate corporate domain, miles and miles away.  Let's call it CORP.
I even tried going to the virtual directory's Directory Security tab, and under Authentication and Access Control, I tried using the same LIVE domain username for the anonymous access credential.  No luck.
I'm not trying to run any ASP, ASP.NET, or other dynamic anything out of the virtual directory.  I just want IIS to be able to load static images, css, and js files.
I try to create a virtual directory, point it to the same network directory, click Connect As, uncheck the "Always use the authenticated user's credentials when validating access to the network directory" checkbox so that I can enter the login info, enter the credentails for LIVE\MediaUser, click OK, verify the password, etc.
Essentially the domains have to have some knowledge of each other, so AD can do its thing.  The UNC share isn't telling you its not validated (that would be a HTTP 400 class error).  The DEV server is telling you (via 500.16) that it cannot create a token for the creds you gave it, b/c it has no idea what the LIVE domain is, so kerberos can't create a token for it.
The documentation says this means "UNC authorization credentials are incorrect" and the Win32 status means "Logon failure: unknown user name or bad password."
I agree with not joining the CORP machine to the LIVE domain, but is there any reason you cannot establish a one-way trust between them?  Basically, either LIVE needs to be able to validate CORP\user, or CORP needs to be able to successfully pass a LIVE\user credential (which it cannot if it has no knowledge of that domain, even though IIS 6's management console doesn't make this too clear).
On my development machine.  I log in as CORP\MyName.  My IIS 6 application pool runs as Network Service.  I can't run it as a user from the LIVE domain because my machine isn't (and can not be) joined to that domain.
We have a large central storage unit (unix) that houses images and other media needed by many webservers in the server farm.  The IIS application pools run as (let's say) LIVE\MediaUser and use those credentials to connect to a central storage share as a virtual directory, retrieve the images, and serve them as if they were local on each server.
Ensure that the user account you are using to access the shared folder (e.g. LIVE\MediaUser) has permission to "Log on as a service" and "Access this computer from the network".
Administrative Tools -> Computer Management -> Local Security Settings -> Local Policies -> User Rights Assignment 