PS. Contact me offline for more on this topic as this is a LOB (line of business) for me but this answer is not offered as a solicitation...
Upfront work involves preparing a tight script, practicing to remove the "uhs" from your delivery, and knowing/investing enough to get a decent mic (not the crappy one in your laptop, please!).  Bad sound is the #1 reason people click away from a podcast or video. (Slow pacing being #1b...)
Jing (Win/OSX) is pretty useful for 'fly-by' tutorials and has saved me lots of time when someone is stuck with something and can't access their computer remotely.
This is one of those things like "What wine is the best?" or "Do these jeans make me look fat?" - but here goes...
Many people swear by Camtasia. I used it in the past, and indeed, it's a great product. Here's an open source alternative: CamStudio.
ScreenFlow for the Mac is great -- worth the $100.  It will let you do a screencast in one or several passes, you can have multiple video streams [such as the screen and a webcam capture of you talking], and it'll let you highlight the active window or a circle around the mouse.
NOW, if sound and action are not essential, explore using Google's free Picasa which does a great job producing a 'slide show' type presentation of a sort of kiosk nature.  Powerpoint does the same, but hey, let's try to use the free stuff, right?
A picture can be worth 1k words to be sure, but that doesn't necessary mean a Moving Picture is worth any more.
The tools noted above and on the "round up" are solid, although I have found Captivate to be too much for the typical user to master IF all that is wanted is to bang out a quick tutorial.
Perhaps the key questions are these - and I admit the answers will vary wildly based on what you are trying to accomplish...
Camtasia is great for screen casts. If you want to edit later, you can do some editing, but it's not full featured. It allows simple editing, and 2 video tracks you can put together. Lots of export possibilities as well.
Post-production work involve editing; getting the pacing right or combining two different tracks for the right cadence.