Brain does not do its best work when you're 10 or 12 hours into the day, go home, grab a beer, get some shut-eye and hit the ground running in the morning!
We have a policy to only edit system configuration with a script that backs up the configuration file first, before letting you edit it. It's basically a wrapper around vi, but it does the job pretty well: it's very easy to roll back even the most complex changes.
Document everything you do, you can use this later on as a script when you have to redo the task. Peer review. Double check and use a stage machine to test the stuff you want to do/change.Automate and keep everything configuration related under some version control system.
I also find "peer review" useful... "hey bob, I'm just going to bargle the frargle - you see anything up with that?" just saying it out loud can solidify what you are doing in your mind.
Some sensible and dangerous tasks are performed in pairs, not alone. GNU screen is used when possible, so the same terminal is shared by two admins working together.
Most important "don't be afraid of making mistakes - you will do them". Most often this will make it easier for you to work. Mistakes will happen just be prepared to be able to clean up the mistakes nicely.
I'm careful to be specific about what I'm doing before I do anything. Writing a script that deletes all files in the current working directory for example can work in my test, but do something bad later on.
For example, once I had a RAID disk failing when I was 300+ Km away from the server, and the on-site admin wasn't too secure of the procedure. He correctly identified and replaced the failing disk, but was afraid of dealing with the beast that is the RAID command-line management interface (called afacli). It was a tight situation for him: the array was degraded meaning that if another disk failed serious data loss would ensue.
So, we joined a shared screen session, and I watched him issuing the commands for setting the new disk as a fallback, then watching the RAID to rebuild itself in the new disk.