(2) Set aside time to read research papers, even if they're not directly related to your current research.
For every question that you can't solve there's an easier variant that you can solve; for every question that you've just solved, there's a harder variant that you still can't solve.  Going back and forth across the "boundary of solvability" is extremely useful as it (1) allows you to progress in baby steps (2) gives you a clearer picture of the landscape.
Some people dislike (or fear) to talk about their projects, perhaps out of concerns for poaching, but most people when I was in grad school were pretty open. Unless the door was closed, in which case either I or they were hard at work without wanting interruptions.
Its easy to forget about the details of what I was thinking about 2 weeks ago.  Revisiting previous thoughts/problems/miniresults enables me to avoid reinventing the wheel. Also, I found it especially useful to write down places where I was getting stuck and not making progress.  Revisiting later often let me break through whatever I was trying to solve.  In a different way, writing in a journal forced me to spend those extra ten minutes at the end of the day to follow through and finish up whatever task I had left that day.  Otherwise, I probably would've just put it off until the next day.
Finally, it's been very useful to me to think about my research right before going to sleep/in the shower/while exercising/on the subway/etc.  Some of the other commenters seem to disagree here, especially with the right-before-bed part, but I've found it to be very useful.  I tend to look at the problem from different directions in these kinds of situations, and I might spot some insight I wouldn't have at work.
Get up and talk to colleagues and fellow grad students, take breaks and lunches together and talk about that interesting problem you're exploring. Most research benefits from multiple points of view, and most researchers are happy to discuss intriguing and knotty thought experiments. 