I did this a year ago but quickly found Linux so convenient that I rarely ever boot into Windows, even when I'm developing apps for Windows.  I develop them with cross-platform tools, and boot into Windows every week or so to tweak any OS related problems.
And if you don't end up liking Linux, then your costs are very small 20GB and a boot screen that lasts for a few seconds.
Linux saves time.  Both the OS and applications from repositories take less time to install and applications are automatically updated.
If you were a Linux user, dual-booting just might be helpful. You could do a lot of stuff in Linux, but you might need to boot into Windows for a few things (like some gaming). And Windows is somewhat harder to use LiveCD style or from a thumb drive (just because it's not really designed for that).
I strongly disagree with the VM crowd of answers here.  Before I dual booted I ran Linux in VMs, and it was always just a bit of a hassle.  Things were just slightly off enough (a bit slower, USB drives weren't discovered when I wanted or were when I didn't want, etc) that it wasn't a pleasure to use.
While installing a new drive is the perfect time to dedicate a little slice to making a dual boot with Linux.
The only real benefit in dual booting (as opposed to running a virtual machine) is that you have full access to the host machines hardware instead of "virtual" hardware.
Because Linux can read and write to NTFS perfectly well, Linux can just live on a small partition on your new disk, say 20 GB for Linux, and that will hold all you'll ever need if data is stored on the NTFS partitions.
Here's a take on it: if you don't really think you need to run it, it would probably be better not to dual-boot. If you need to do something Linuxy, you could use a LiveCD or stick a tiny distro on a thumb drive.
That said, unless you like to experiment and explore, or unless you've got apps that really need a native linux environment, Windows should suffice. Basically, if you need to run Linux, you'll know you need to run it, and if you don't...