If you allow transfers between servers (and you ideally should, so that people can play on the same server as their friends), add the following two points to the above list:
But Eco is also about teaching people how this kind of behavior is destructive, so it's Won't Fix: As Designed.
And then to make this less frustrating for the rich, you can introduce a protection mechanic, like a secure vault, which charges the player a % of their stored money as a fee. So one way or another, the money is getting recirculated back into the system.
Eco explores this with minted currencies and it's very easy to manipulate prices if the mint is not issuing new currency (the mint can also manipulate the currency pretty well as well via minting new currency, but that was not done in our case): 
I think a simple solution would be to incorporate some kind of stealing. Like being able to employ the thieves' guild to steal a % of someone's wealth. The thief charges a fixed amount, say 5g, and steals 1% of the target's money. So it only makes sense to steal from the rich.
The core issue is nothing else in the system is hard capped like the currency, so if I can farm apples for 24 hours straight and acquire 1% of the total gold, then I can farm it for a month straight and acquire apples worth 30% of the total gold... (insert whatever is the most profitable thing to farm... because that is what farmers will go after). Given that, if prices are also fixed, the central bank will very quickly be bled dry and a player economy will supplant it.
You may also want to consider modelling the economy around, rather than an absolute fixed amount, a relative amount (based on the number of players). If you have 9000 gold and your game is a hit and you have 9001 players... 
You may also consider having a system whereby players can purchase from NPC's on credit with a fixed limit, but only if they have less than some total amount of wealth.  Combining this with the above system will limit how much impact hoarders have on the game, because being out of gold doesn't mean you can't do anything.
You're going to need some kind of forced, "hard" sink to return the money to circulation. Without it, as painful as it might be to implement one, you will only be postponing the inevitable.
This led to a lot of internal strife as players raised prices to try and milk currency from me (which made their wares un-affordable for others and in doing so reduced their own income). I then had even less incentive to spend which increased my net gain. I started funding public works to try and fairly redistribute what I had, rather than give in to the price fixers.
Another way to redistribute wealth is to use Fiscal policy (taxation). By charging a small amount of tax at a certain time interval, or on each purchase, you can control where the gold ends up.
I ended up with > 40% of the total wealth (and ~60% of the active wealth) on a ~20 pop server by cornering the market on a couple skills and running positive feedback loops between player stores (it's worth noting those are not strictly free money: being a porter is a legit job which no one else was willing to do).
For example, perhaps characters need to pay a monthly (real time) fee to their house guards while the player is logged out to maintain their security. Otherwise there is a chance the character will be "killed by an assassin" or whatever while offline.
Obviously, as you note, this can be frustrating so the death should not be permanent and you should probably have a pressure relief valve for characters that end up completely penniless so they can bootstrap themselves back when they return to play after a year. It's better than deleting the character wholesale, though.
Using those four levers, you can tweak things to keep the total amount of gold roughly even on average, while still allowing for enough variance that hoarding is not as much of an issue.  It also gives a much closer approximation of the real-world economy than just allowing a fixed amount of gold in circulation.
First off, it's important that you understand how wealth should end up distributed on average.  If you've got 100 players on a server, then on average over a long period of time, everyone should have approximately 1% of the player owned wealth with a minimum owned by NPC's, ideally with a very low variance.  In a short-term situation though, small to medium imbalances are good, they're what drives the economy.
Character death can act as a hard sink, returning a portion of the character's wealth to the pool available to NPCs. Gameplay incentives revolving around upkeep can push players towards spending their money. 
After that we saw a resurgence of player credits (essentially structured IOUs issued by various people - that player can issue an unlimited amount, others can trade on it)
One of the best ways to redistribute money is to look at supply and demand. Do the players with most of the wealth have an incentive to spend their money? If not, they won't.
So, don't make the amount of gold truly fixed on an instantaneous scale.  In other words, long-term, it ends up being a roughly fixed amount of gold, but short term, it varies.  One way of doing this is to do all of the following: