But if you can avoid the "enterprise" stuff, of course you can save lots of money and/or get much more bang for the buck.
I have been basically psyched out by some of the sales consultants from enterprise vendors such as EMC and NetApp.
The reason you use an enterprise solution is when you have enterprise needs, like uptime and replacement SLAs, performance, and integrity solutions (like multi-tray raid).  I wholeheartedly disagree with the idea that you can somehow build your own level of reliability and performance without spending at least as much money for hardware, and (as important if not more) software to manage the whole thing.  Performance of the controller heads alone will crush anything you can build, and there is a reason HP, Dell (the 2 I know do this) cherry pick thru pallets of drives lookng for ones that meet their specs.  
We have a new requirement to store around 30 TB of unstructured data, and around 100-200 GB of structured data (mostly MySQL). I am considering setting up couple of JBODs which are custom built running FreeNAS, OpenFiler or OpenSolaris for the unstructured Data. The total cost with redundancy and backup is coming to less than 10,000 USD for me.
If you're dead set on "free", look at NappIT on top of Solaris Express or OpenIndiana.  But, your support is limited to the community.
Everyone seemed to forget the main reason to choose enterprise solution: to cover your *ss. "Nobody was ever fired for buying IBM". If you go the EMC or NetApp way, and something goes wrong, nobody will accuse you of choosing a shoddy solution (even if some EMC or NetApp solutions are actually quite shoddy).
Sales consultants from the so-called enterprise vendors have been asking us to move the infrastructure to their boxes, which with all licensing will cost us 50,000-55,000 USD ( 32 TB Storage Array). 
Go with NexentaStor.  All the features of "big iron" & none of the costs.  Plus you get ZFS, which is, IMO, superior to current "big iron" filesystems.  You have to pay over 18TB, but it's a marginal fee which I think is worth it because you get good support (so I've heard), and you're supporting an open source cause.
For the latter, I am planning to use a standard HP DL-180 G6 Server RAID 1 ( 2 SAS Drives), with an incremental backup to a backup system.
However I would like to take more opinions on the right strategy. What more should I do to make data more secure and not compromise on performance
The files inside the JBOD are often accessed by a web application used by some of our mobile workforce. Presently the data size of files are less than 1 TB, but this should increase to 20-22 TB in next 2 years time. Also the number of users accessing may also go up. That means this would be accessed very often. Something like 20-25 concurrent users at any point of time, and during peak may be about 250.
So that's about your company's policy in the end. There are places where using "non standard" solutions is banned, plain and simple. It may even be for regulatory reasons; maybe your data is worth so much that you need an insurance for it, and the insurance won't work if your solution isn't certified end-to-end (yes, that means IBM/Oracle/EMC/... all the way down).