DHCP is a protocol for configuring hosts, and runs periodically to keep their addresses and other configuration up to date.
And the router may not have an entry in its NAT table for this new, unsolicited connection, so it drops the connection as nonsense.
The problem is then that the rest of the internet cannot route to those addresses.  In fact, many routers on the internet are configured to just drop packets with those addresses.
So to Bob and all networks between the NAT and Bob, the connection is between NAT_IP and NAT_Port and Bob_IP and Bob_Port.
In other words, they're not the same thing. It's like engines and tires: they both belong on a car and help make it run, but they do VERY different things.
While this is typically used so that private IP addresses can be used by Alice and her friends, and the NAT owns a NAT_IP that is a public IP valid on the entire internet.
DHCP solves a different problem.  When you connect to a network, you may not have an IP address.  DHCP is a way your computer can broadcast "Hello, this is me [ethernet hardware id], I need an IP address, can anyone help me?"
NAT a process is for rewriting packets as they are forwarded across a router. To be more specific it does translate the addresses and sometimes the ports.
The downside to this NAT is that your computer doesn't have a unique identity.  So when someone wants to connect to your computer, if they send a packet at what appears to be your computer's IP address, they instead send it to the router.
But you can also have layers of NAT between Alice and Bob, some facing Alice some facing Bob.  It could even be used to when the addresses translated-to are real public internet addresses (but I don't see much point).
Your consumer router connects to your ISP's router (or equivalent), which in turn distributes it an IP address.  Your router typically does NAT, converting the DHCP-from-private-IP address connections of your household computers to its own DHCP-from-ISP provided IP address.  Possibly your ISP then translates your router's IP address into a real internet IP address using yet another layer of NAT; or, maybe your ISP owns enough IP addresses that they can give your router a "real on the internet" IP address.
Where it gets those IP addresses is not something DHCP concerns itself about.  On a typical consumer router, it grabs them from a pool of IP addresses reserved for private use, 10.xx.xx.xx, or 192.168.xx.xx.
Often a router will be configured to respond with "Sure, here is an IP address", and the router remembers (a) your mac address has that IP address, and (b) the IP address is on that particular sub-network.
What's probably tripping you up is that most of the Internet runs on NAT (and often IPv4 NAT). If you're using NAT, the default configuration there is you take a public IP and then DHCP your non-routing block to whatever devices connect behind the router. The trick there is you don't HAVE to DHCP NAT. You can actually assign all your devices a local, non-routing IP. In fact, most residential routers have some block they don't DHCP for that reason, so you can assign, say, a network printer a fixed IP. 
When there is a NAT between them (say, translating Alice-side requests), takes the Alice_IP and Alice_Port and replaces them with NAT_IP and NAT_Port.
The NAT keeps a table saying "Packets from Bob_IP and Bob_Port targeting NAT_IP and NAT_Port gets translated to Alice_IP and Alice_Port".
Nat is used to translate public to private ip address inside a network, dhcp is used for automatically giving the hosts in a network an ip, so that they can communicate with the router, and the outside world.
It would be a pain to have someone come to your house and go "What's your Wifi password?" only to have you respond "Wait, let me assign your device an IP. What's your MAC address?" Not only will you get a blank stare (and your parents will disown you for asking them to tech), but this is a massive pain for you too. As such, nobody runs their network like this because DHCP is really convenient. I mean Adam Jacobs from Chef (DevOps company) told this story about a company that thought they couldn't use DHCP. Which immediately raised eyebrows among technology professionals.