For the time being, our strategy will be to use one of these to simply turn the fans on and off manually. So, the first person to arrive in the office in the morning can turn it off and the last person to leave can turn it on. This way, the fans will run ~16 hours per day during the work week and non stop during the weekends.
If noise is really a problem, you might want to see about buying some quieter fans.  Most gear in "racks" is made for performance, not quietness.
That said, if the rack is not adequately ventilated, you can damage components inside very quickly.  Heat management is not something to be taken lightly.
At a couple of customer sites I've experienced total A/C failure, and in both cases every single piece of networking switch gear had to be replaced over the following year, plus several drives and even entire servers.
Some quieter fans that are thermostatically controlled might help. Take a look here, although I don't have personal experience with them or their products. You might also be able to reduce noise by reducing the physical coupling of the fans to the cabinet using sheets of neoprene between the contact surfaces if there's room.
If you have a single computer in the rack, then the heat load is probably not too bad and you can possibly get away with not running the fans at all.  If you don't have any sides/back/front on the rack, you can probably get away with not running the fans at all.
Depending on what your cabinet looks like... I think you should be able to come up with a cheap solution that does the job.
Once again... since I don't know what your cabinet looks like I can't really tell you if this is much help... but hopefully it gives you a few ideas.
Not sure if it makes any sence to use the fans like you described, but a power timer may help, please check these links: 1, 2, 3
At the very least I'd try to find myself a cheap slow speed, low noise, high volume fan... something like this or perhaps even larger:
Sounds to me like what you REALLY need is a quiet fan that can move air when it needs to.  The only real solution for the problem you're describing is a thermostatically controlled fan.
You can also find fans for server racks themselves but that starts to get expensive.  Here's an example: