That is what I do myself. I've got a 3 year old Zotac NUC with a Core-i5 (4 cores) and 16 GB RAM. (Intel on-board graphics, no dedicated gfx card.)
If you can get it to boot at all chances are that you can get all other drivers running, but I won't put any bets on it.
On reasonably modern, halfway decent hardware a VM is more than capable of matching the performance of an old XP machine.  
Also, you can try converting the machine to a VM (VMware Converter or like), but if the XP machine is an OEM install, this will not work. You may be as well off getting a License for XP on eBay (you can still get them there)
Just making a backup copy of the original disk and restoring that on a XP VM seems a much more sensible solution. It won't touch the original machine in any way so you will still have that as a fall-back.
As mentioned, no hardware made within the last 5 years is likely to be supported by Windows XP. The chances of getting Windows XP to run well is slim.
Backup the XP system then move the drive to the new hardware and restore the OS to the drive with the dissimilar hardware option that still supports XP.
It will happily run a XP VM (using 2 cores and 4 GB RAM for the VM) in VirtualBox that is, even with emulated graphics, faster than the original Core2Duo hardware.
You will need to find hardware that has no UEFI BIOS (XP won't run on UEFI, not even with Legacy/CSM support enabled). USB3 is out of the question too. And, as far as I know, no USB3 capable USB chipset has XP drivers (including no drivers for the USB2 fall-back mode).
Then you would need to merge the motherboard and SATA drivers (and USB if you need that for mouse/keyboard) for the new hardware into the existing XP setup while it is still on the old hardware. (Difficult and error-prone.)
Your best option is to virtualize the system and run it on hyper-v or some other virtualization technology using new hardware.
Besides: If you can't get it to work chances are that the XP install gets messed up so badly in the process it will not work on the original hardware anymore. You better have a very good backup just in case.