In safe mode, try setting the Microsoft Exchange Services to 'Manual' insted of 'Automatic' in services.msc.
this used to be on a two DC network. the other DC is a server 2003 unit. Since it was SBS 2003 all the fsmo roles were moved to the sbs 2003 box 3 years ago. Also both DC's were made
If the server boots OK have a look in the 'queue directory' ; by default this is in c:\program files\exchsrvr\mailroot\vsi 1\queue or check the 'messages' tab on the 'Default SMTP Virtual Server' in Exchange Manager for the location.
normally at this stage i would be done and things would be quick to boot, the testing would be over. BUT i keep getting slow preparing network connections. I have done this with the nic connected by cable and with it removed. The main even id is 1126 about the global catalog error. i checked under sites and services and it seems to be enabled.
ok did a test to different hardware for a sbs 2003 r2 sp1 machine, client wants a documented test. Have done this in the past many times for others but this time the "preparing network connections" takes long, takes about 20 minutes to boot to the ctrl+alt+dlt
Could you edit your post to include a more detailed description about what you say you're seeing in the event log?
A variety of things could cause what you're seeing. Typically it is DNS-related, but it doesn't have to be, and it sounds like you checked that out already.
Toggle the "Verbose vs normal status messages" setting in the "System" section of group policy "Administrative Templates" to "Enabled" and see if the message "Preparing network connections..." changes to something a bit more helpful. (I set this setting to "Enabled" on all Customer networks. It's very handy to see more verbose information about what's happening during the time that WinLogon is putting the machine together.)
If there are any files in the queue firectory move them to a different location, set the Exchange services back to Automatic and reboot.
THE DNS is pointing to itself. Do i have to do anything ms loopback adapter? never did in the past but if so is there any whitepapers on it. i was thinking maybe there is a chance that the loopback adapter is still locked to the old hardware.