I'm sure there are a few more questions I've missed as I'm writing in a hurry, but this should cover the basics.
This is a pretty typical setup for some companies, as it allows the Exchange server to not be exposed at all to the outside, and there are several Postfix setups that do a decent job of filtering unwanted email and virus attacks.
I agree, that if your already paying for Exchange, then this would be the best solution for your privacy and service uptime concerns. 
If the Exchange/Postfix solution isn't working for you now I'd guess that you have one or more of the following problems:
Look. I'll just come out and say it, you need to provide more details about your planned deployment.  To answer this correctly, you'll need to outline:
Postfix is a really good MTA in most situations, fast, reliable and easy to setup. Exim might come handy when you need to do more advanced kind of things.
It's tough to really give a useful answer as you've included almost no detail in your question. Where are you in the world? Why are you looking at changing? What are the current problems? What is your budget?
I think that several people here can recommend different solutions; Postfix + Amavisd + Dovecot has worked fine for me for several years, although that setup has changed for me recently.
Under the right circumstances, either of those mailers will work just fine.  But you need to outline some of your requirements a little more.
A fair number of people.  And being a university, many new ones will arrive, and many will leave.  So you will have some constant turnover in your user-base.
How about Google Apps for Education? There are a great number of colleges and universities moving to Google for their mail, and nearly without exception, they all have outstanding reviews of the service.
I've also seen many universities in the UK use Microsofts Live@Edu service (http://www.microsoft.com/liveatedu/free-hosted-student-email.aspx)
IMO, unless there is a good reason not to, it doesn't make sense to run on-premise email solutions if you have any combination of the problems that I listed above. I'd recommend using a hosted email solution (Google, Microsoft Live, Microsoft EHS, etc) at least for the students, as these services are usually month to month and you can terminate student accounts at the end of the semester.