The issue is most likely with the graphics driver.  Whenever a single monitor is disconnected from a multimonitor setup in Windows, Windows will attempt to move everything from that screen onto the remaining screen(s).  Usually, this will not occur when suspending/hibernating/shutting down the computer.  Thus, it is probably because of the graphics driver doing one of the following:
Same problem here with Windows 8.1 and Macbook Air 2013 (Intel HD Graphics 5000). I try everything. Finally I went to Intel updated with the latest drivers for my graphic card and the problem continues. Then I went to the graphics property, with my second display turn on in Multiple Display I choose 'Disconnect this display', then after the second display disconnected I select extend my desktop and the problem dissapear. Hope this works for you.
In my limited view, the root problem could be the Nvidia card, but also Windows, DisplayPort, or the monitor (Lenovo X1 4K)
I'm guessing the SIMULATED key is used for when the PC goes to sleep, but Windows still needs to maintain a desktop in the process of going to/resuming from sleep, even when the actual monitor(s) may not report themselves yet.
Check to see if there is an update to your graphics driver by going to the chipset manufacturer's website.
In my case, with three 1920x1080 monitors arranged horizontally, it seems to have been fixed by going to the registry key mentioned in other answers (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\GraphicsDrivers\Configuration), finding the key starting with SIMULATED, then changing all the values of 1920 under that key to 5760 (1920 times three, for the three monitors).
For me, the fix was https://superuser.com/a/908156/238666 . Summary: Windows fails to read the EDID info from the monitor at wakeup, and in the Nvidia control panel you can save the EDID info to a file and set the pc to read it from that file, under the the Task: Workstation, View System Topology, EDID Source.
Not all NVidia cards support the ability to fake the EDID, and it isn't just Sleep that causes this problem. If a monitor is turned off or disconnects briefly, it can wreak havoc on a carefully configured screen layout. As none of the solutions here worked out for me, I wrote a utility to restore the window positions when the number of monitors change.  It is available with source code here.