I'd also add server hardening and monitoring and such. Firewall hardware, patching and patch testing, monitoring...All these things take a lot of time.
And lastly, there are benefits to having a "multi-homed network", i.e. a Autonomous System with multiple transit (carrier) providers. You'll enjoy better route diversity, and have better chances of all your customers being able to resolve a route to you at any given time.
Just chiming in with another note on cooling.  If you're renting, check ahead of time to see if the landlord likes to cut the A/C over weekends & holidays.  That moderate amount of heat generally output becomes a big problem when it's 90F outside and 98 inside...  Just sayin.
I ran my own servers for years - moved them all over to the Rackspace cloud - and have never looked back. Now I develop software, and someone else takes care of the infrastructure.
However, IMO, the best (maybe only) reason to have servers in a datacenter is bandwidth.  If you think you can really get by with 2-4Mbps upload and you're confident of the uptime of your ISP, you should be able to handle any other issues.
In general, my recommendation would be to co-locate your old servers at a friendly datacenter not too far away. You will still benefit from your existing hardware, and your servers will have nice, low-latency, professional tubes to the Internet.
You will never be able to come close to having the power redundancy, A/C capacity, bandwidth capacity and knowledge know how that a big company like Rackspace can provide you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year for a few hundred a month.
Redundant pipe is nice, but the premium is high. We use two sets of bonded T2's and actually had a "moron with a backhoe" incident earlier this year. We stayed up, but it seriously impacted our performance.
Obviously, do what you think you need to do, but my opinion would be a resounding "no way". As a small company, you need to focus on more important things than managing server(s) - do what you do best, develop software and sell software - and let someone else with a lot more experience take care of mundane tasks like installing patches to the O/S, backing up servers etc. and battling DOS attacks.
Does your current datacenter provide you with bandwidth usage data?  I'd take a long hard look at that before deciding to move.  Also set up some in-depth monitoring of your current internet circuit at work and see if you're getting the uptime you'll need.
Next up, consumer-class lines generally have higher latency (Round Trip Time), and this impacts TCP/IP performance. For large file downloads or very simple webpages with a minimum of objects it's probably not a big deal. For VoIP, more interactive or more performance-critical uses it could be significant.
I have to admit I liked the thought of having the server sitting here right next to me, but the reality is they didn't need to be.
As an admin, I'd suggest a slow migration from remote to local, to give yourself plenty of time to make sure everything works right (and to back out, if it turns out to be ugly) but as an experienced admin, I know that the likelihood of being allowed to double your costs for a transitional period are very low.
Admin work is going to be the big scary: sure, you lose time now because some idiot at the co-lo spilled his coffee on a server, but when you bring it in house, and it's your coffee, then the problem is far beyond just calling your hosting provider and demanding that they get their butts in gear. What kind of hardware support are you looking into? It can be very expensive, depending on your needs.
I don't know if your ISP has any special tricks up his sleeve, but in general you cannot bond / merge multiple consumer-type lines. Your lines would terminate in different IP addresses at your premises, and you can't "bond" IP addresses. You could put half your servers on line 1, and the other half on line 2 -- but that has obvious drawbacks in case of a failure.