Now, unless my family has a very specific need, new computers in my house always run Linux exclusively.
Choice of software availability is a common reason, though usually for choosing Windows. There is some software, though, that wasn't ported to Windows or done in such an unusable way that it's better to natively use on a UNIX-like OS.
For myself, I use Linux (Ubuntu specifically).  I have been a windows user for years.  I make my living writing software for windows.  Being a curious geek type I played around with Linux at home.  After a few years of toying with GNU\LINUX and letting my family use both I noticed something very interesting.  I was spending considerably less time futzing around with the Linux machines.
My laptop and general workstation are Ubuntu, however when it comes to my servers I tend to go with freeBSD.  Occasionally I use ubuntu server edition.  There are some Solaris and Irix boxes kicking around in the rack as well.
However, I consider some UNIX alternatives to tools I use daily to be inferior to the ones I am using right now—at least for my uses and habits; this includes Far and Windows PowerShell.
Because I'm used to it and don't have found polished applications like: foobar2000, notepad++, everything, mIRC, find & run robot, KMPlayer, µTorrent, Office...
To me I don't particularly care. I'm a Windows user proficient with command line tools and a software developer. I never was very comfortable with UNIX-like operating systems. To me it's not a way of living but rather something to get done what I want to get done and the tools I choose aren't particularly based on ideological reasons.
For myself, I use OS X. I love it because it is a multi-user system, because it was build on the BSD UNIX system. There is still root command line support when I need it. But on the other hand, it has a single, system-wide desktop manager (Finder), program launchers (Dock, Spotlight), and package installer (Installer). 
It is the best of both worlds for me. Plus there is so many sources of freeware and shareware available, it's hard not to go with it.
My home windows boxes were always requiring attention for virus scans, software crashes, malware removal, semi-annual wipe and rebuilds etc.  My linux boxen on the other hand just worked.  Always.  No matter how I (or my teen-aged children) abused them the Linux boxen just kept on ticking.
In times where most people can easily get their hands on pirated copies of software, cost is usually not a very large issue, so I don't consider that a very valid argument for most individuals (corporations or people caring more about buying software are exempt, though).
I find that linux/BSD systems are much easier to develop on.  That is a big thing for me.  In addition having the source code for the kernel is great since I can learn about device drivers, kernels, and systems software.  Also, there is much more flexibility as far as file systems, so I can play around with distributed filesystems (like hadoop).  Also it is much easier to build clusters for writing distributed code in linux.  Also I find that for securing servers freeBSD works wonderfully with the bsd jails.  