As someone who works in IT in a corporate environment, with computers that are managed by Windows group policy, hibernate can cut down our boot time to 1/4 or less of what it would be to do a clean startup.  Most of the management tasks that happen during boot don't need to happen during wake from hibernation.  Of course, in our environment, we periodically reboot to catch updates and other config changes, but we can do that at our convenience such as over lunch breaks.  
There have been a couple of times when I have had to pack up my laptop when there still is a running process. This is especially necessary when I'm running CPU-intensive programs like Mathematica or a compilation because putting the laptop inside a bag is one way to overheat it. Hibernation is the best thing to do here.
Otherwise shutdown can take too long to process, open programs don't always have clean shutdown from system initiated close and will damage or lose unsaved open documents.
Thought I'd toss one more reason in the pile: having multiple OSes on a machine.  If you dual boot between Linux and Windows, for example, you can switch to the other OS and come back without losing any work.
Firstly, not everything is on SSD. I'm on a laptop right now with no SSD, and I hibernate all the time.
A contrario, hibernation and then wake-up give me everything I had on the screen — even unsaved documents.
The only thing modern technology gives us when it comes to hibernation is the ability to just shut down a computer when we aren't concerned about the running programs and restart with the same/similar speed as hibernation.
Plus in the environment we're in, we use self-encrypting hard drives as a security measure, and the ones we use are still spinning disks so we can't benefit from SSD speed yet, and may not for some time.
UPS signals power out, machine checks battery level, saves system state to disk so it comes  back exactly as prior to the power outage.
Secondly, hibernation preserves the full memory state (more or less). If you have a running process that you do not wish to close, hibernation is the way to go.
For desktop PCs, yes, hibernation makes less sense as you can still sleep/suspend and achieve the same effect. However, the need for hibernation on a desktop is -o different than the need for hibernation years ago. Booting up may be faster, but the standard boot doesn't give you back all your open programs. Sleep/Suspend/Hibernate do, and which one you want to use depends on whether or not you trust your power supply on a desktop. And in many cases, you can't -- I live in a city where there are scheduled power cuts every day in some parts of the suburbs.
Doing a clean boot-up every time you turn the computer on also wastes more power than hibernate, since instead of simply pulling data back into RAM, every single application as well as the OS has to go through its full startup routine, which can cause far more CPU activity and hard drive usage.