It could be keyboard related. I'm having same issue, except volume goes up and down sometimes. This trouble is caused by my Razer Lycosa and its multimedia control panel. I'm fixing it by unplugging and re-plugging the keyboard.
If I watch the little green bar that moves when sound is coming through, it just barely blinks, but as soon as I click the slider handle it jumps up to where it should be. 
Audio playback would sometimes be normal and then jump to loud (seemingly twice as loud)  briefly during playback, sometimes for just a moment and then sometimes for as long as 10 seconds
I have this same problem randomly on my cheap Gateway desktop, but it only happens after I plug or unplug a USB device.
So if you have any sort of hardware volume control on keyboard/speakers/headphones, try to unplug it when you are having this problem.
When it happens, click the speaker in the tray and select "mixer". See if your player volume is down for some reason
I went to Realtek's site and downloaded version 2.7 of their audio drivers. Those drivers did a clean uninstall of the existing drivers, rebooted, and then finished installing the new ones, rebooting again afterward.
I also have W7 x64 and see similar behavior after making or receiving a call through Lync. I do have it muting other sounds while in a call, but it doesn't seem to go back to normal all the time after the call is finished. I usually have to go into the mixer and just click the little slider handle and the volume goes back to where it should be at that point.
Try that the next time it happens. If the sound goes back to normal once you click the handle (not moving it, just clicking it in place) then we may have a similar issue in that some other piece of software is interfering with the individual volume control.  Unfortunately, i'm still looking for a fix, but my issues is most likely Lync.
My volume meters had to be up to 100% for the OS, and 100% for the media playback software, with my speaker volume knob at about 1/3 level in order to get "normal" playback volume.
I had a similar problem on an HP s2300z slimline system, except the audio was seemingly stuck in the "turned down" mode and then occasionally would double in volume, if only briefly.
I would wager that you have Skype or some other VOIP software installed. I've encountered this same issue when using Skype. 
As soon as I launch a call in Skype it lowers my speaker volume for me automatically.  Took me ages to figure out why it kept lowering.  The problem was that Skype doesn't automatically set it back to what it was after a call.
Do you have lots of things sucking juice from the power supply? Maybe a device becomes active then the power flux causes the audio issue?
If clicking the slider doesn't work, there is a chance that your speakers themselves might be the cause.  Are you using headphones? External powered speakers? You might simply try a different set of output device to rule them out.
Another less likely thought... do you have any cables laying on the carpet? No lie, I've had static electricity from me walking on the carpet shoot across the carpet (I imagine it like a wave) and cause static/feedback on my speaker wires before.