I went thru the same path recently where one of the top executives of my company wanted a home PC(not domain managed) to connect to office remotely and use his TWO computers(which has 3 monitors). 
The user working from home will log on to WebVPN and start the Java Application. Once started, he/she can open mstsc.exe /span (/multimon for windows 7) and connect to 127.0.10.11:8891. 
Windows XP users might have issue with spanning across multiple monitors, when you maximize a window it will stretch across all monitors. In that case, use SplitView.
WebVPN is much better than RRAS or client-based solution. You can setup many applications to stream thru VPN without needing to install it locally.
If you are willing to keep them on their local desktops, I would highly recommend LogMeIn. They have a "free" version without file transfer, remote sound, and remote printing. Their Pro^2 version includes all of that and is only about $50-$70 a year (depending on how many licenses you have). The ease of use for the end-user and the simplicity for you to install it on their PCs will make it well worth the money.
In order to manage the remote home PC over internet, we used a NetSupport with Gateway enabled feature. Configure Netsupport gateway on the DMZ server(preferably windows) and edit firewall rules to allow traffic over internet. On home PC setup the http communication to the public IP or DNS address. Then you can connect NetSuport console to the remote gateway and just connect to the PC over internet. It communicates over HTTPS.
Also it saves the enourmous problems of users calling you up asking VPN setup questions... who knows what they are running, firewall settings, etc. Citrix is the answer. :)
We looked at MS Intune for this, but it doesn't allow unattended RDP which we needed as the executive might just walk-in and say, please fix my home PC. :/
But, if you're wanting a quick and easy solution to use right now. How about installing Teamviewer onto each PC?  It works well and all they need is the Teamviewer client software to login to their work PC.
We use Juniper's WebVPN and setup a user role to map the office PC to a local loopback address using secure applications manager.
It best solution depends a lot on how the staff normally work and the applications they require but here are a few options.
If you are looking to set them up with "virtual desktops" then a terminal server + VPN would do the trick. The good side to this is that they will have secure access to a centralized server, with centralized management. The downside is that you need to train them on VPN client access [good luck!].
If you turn off PC's overnight then when they call in sick they just need to ask for their PC to be switched on.
You could also do this for free with a VPN+VNC solution, but take my word on this, putting the money into LogMeIn (or other competing remote desktop solution) is well worth it.
Citrix! I can't believe that no one has recommended it yet! This is the perfect opportunity to recommend to your CEO the benefits of your remote users being able to go to one website, login with their credentials and have their entire system available to them. There will be some initial costs, but next flu season everyone will be ready to just login from hom and continue working.