Another possibility is a NIC with a flaky driver. Sometimes the driver is perfectly fine, but the TCP checksum off-loading function (if present) is causing more problems than it's worth. Try updating drivers and/or disabling checksum offloading and see it that makes a difference.
A common cause of such issues is power-management. Often Windows 7 will default to disabling the LAN adapter temporarily while "saving power". This doesn't always work well resulting in just the sort of disconnect behavior that you are seeing. So first check if the NIC driver has a Power-management setting and disable it if it is on. (If there is no such setting it is disabled anyway.)
This has nothing to do with the actual connectivity itself. As you already noticed you can just open \server manually and browse its shares just fine. Or do "Connect network drive" by manually entering the path.
What is worrying are the dropped connections. That shouldn't happen AFTER a connection was established by whatever means.
I've checked all machines and they're not using Home Groups. All are setup on the same WorkGroup as the FreeNAS server and the network type is set to Work Network.
And it get's worse if the systems run different Windows versions due to subtle changes from version to version (even hotfix/servicepack levels can make a difference) or a completely different SMB/CIFS implementation (like Samba).  
ip address can change and it can take afew minutes to an hour or a day for network neighbor hood to wake up sometimes 
Temporarily disabling the firewall on the workstations with the issue made no difference, so I know this has nothing to do with the firewall settings.
In an office LAN, with Windows 7 Professional workstations and a FreeNAS Samba server, 2 workstations have intermittent problems in browsing for the other workstations, as well as the FreeNAS server.
The Browse functionality in Network Neighbourhood is something that has NEVER been very reliable and it probably never will be.
You should check for the amount of computers in the same WORKGROUP. I had this problem and I fixed it by changing the WORKGROUP to a different one. I followed a suggestion from a user (in another site) that said Microsoft Windows only accepts up to 10 computers with the same name for WORKGROUPs. As you say, all others machines are using the same Windows installation and don't have the same problem. Maybe you should try changing the WORKGROUP name. I hope this may work for you.
However, so far, it appears that typing in the path to any of the workstations which aren't visible via the "browse" function, works. ie. the machine Workstation7 is not visible while browsing via Windows Explorer, but is accessible if I type \\Workstation7 in the path field. Occasionally the workstations exhibiting these symptoms show errors that their connection to the FreeNAS server has failed and only rebooting resolves the issue. All other workstations on the network use identical Windows 7 Professional installations and never have these problems.
Machines "see" each order by virtue of the fact that they will regularly broadcast their presence to the other computers in their Workgroup.
this may help someone .It is also better then using an ip address as this is when this problem tends to show up when rebooting a complete network
However these broadcasts are often ignored/missed by the other computers (if a machine or the LAN itself is busy broadcast traffic is the first thing to be dropped) so it is very common that some computers show and others don't.
if clicking on the folder and clicking refresh doesn't work then simply make a short cut named  \computername    this is a work around 