You can conceivably use a shorter pass word if you are using keyfiles, and if you are not worried about performance hits, using AES Twofish and Serpent will cause much headache to those trying to get into the encrypted material.  But also don't overlook that you can also take one encrypted file and place it on the inside of a larger encrypted file.  In this way, you can "allow" your attackers to look at the outside container and let them think they have the entire container.  When in fact, they don't have anything at all.  Feel free to put something slightly shady in the outside file, but nothing that would actually cause you problems.  I think a slew of pornographic photos would fit this bill nicely, here is something that someone would want to hide, and as such, you have a nice reason.  The outside container does not reveal that the inside container even exists.  Place your actual material inside the inner container.  Even better is to make the outside container "weak" with an insufficient password, and no keyfile.  Let your attackers think they broke your encryption, and shrug your shoulders and say, "Damn, you are good, you have me dead to rights."  
Although there are some dangers in cascading multiple ciphers together, Truecrypt appears to deal with them as best it can.  It doesn't add any known plaintexts to the output of the first cipher and it uses indepentant keys for each so by chaining the different algorithms together it should increase the security.
If a vulnerability is found in one (or two) of these ciphers, your data should still be secure, as an attacker would still not be able to break the remaining ciphers.
Rijndael won the AES competition primarily because it's the fastest and easiest to implement in hardware, not because it's the most "secure."  Twofish and Serpent are usually considered more secure, but since they are all extremely rock-solid, that's a very subjective claim.  And of course, encrypting with multiple algorithms will be even more "secure," but will reduce the speed even further.
I would stear clear of 3DES though.  Having read the Truecrypt page listing the choices of algorithm it doesn't even list triple DES so they may have recently removed it.
The cascaded ciphers (AES-Twofish-Serpent, etc.) should be the most secure.  Your data is encrypted with one algorithm, then the output from that is encrypted with the second algorithm, whose output is encrypted with the third algorithm.  According to the TrueCrypt documentation, each algorithm uses a different key, each derived from your passphrase.
Undoubtedly, 3DES is the least secure, but that doesn't necessarily make it insecure (barring the usual unpublished backdoor concern). However I would avoid it. All of the other algorithms are generally considered secure. Determining the presence of an intentionally placed backdoor in any of them likely requires Snowden to release more documents. And honestly, if any of the top 3 did have a backdoor, that would be an absolute bombshell revelation. Given his track record, I'm personally happy to assume that they're still secure.
Best public cryptanalysis for each, assuming 256 bit variants (higher time complexity is better, but all kinds of caveats):
Again, they're all rock-solid, so my advice would be to just go with whichever is fastest on your machine (usually AES).