Well, there are a couple of ways you could solve your problem. First of all, I would recommend you to create two roles and one playbook. In that playbook, you can create two tasks, one for each role, and specify what group of hosts (or, create a regular expression if you've named your hosts in a particular way) you're gonna run that role. If you want to run that playbook just for a particular host, you could call ansible-playbook with the --limit flag.
Using host groups keeps the targeting logic out of the plays, so it's the ideal way to target different hosts in different plays.  You can limit the play to those individual hosts, or you can have a more global site run that includes all the hosts' settings.  Each play still only applies to the hosts / groups it targets.  
The best way to target hosts for a particular play is inside the playbook.  Though it's logical to think that the import_playbook top level action should be targeted to specific hosts, That's not really the way ansible looks at it.  Ansible builds a list of plays that contain tasks and roles (themselves containing takss), each of which targeting one or more hosts or groups, and then runs all the plays from the ansible controller host, ruuning each particular task only on the hosts it targets.  Thus, what you want to do here is define separate drupal host groups for each site, and then add both playbooks to the main site, each targeting a specific group.
It's gonna give you a little bit of work at the beginning, but as the infrastructure you manage through Ansible grows, it's gonna be easier to grow and expand your Ansible files in a organized way.
Now we just need to make sure the groups are defined in your inventory, and the hosts that should get the first site are in drupal_site_1, and those that should get the second site are in drupal_site_2.  You could even make a server be in both groups to serve both sites ( but of course the playbooks would have to be carefully crafted not to interfere).  See https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html for information about how you can group your hosts. 
If I understand correctly, you have a mostly shared ansible run between two servers, but each need to apply a different drupal playbook.