And then, when anyone asks for my email address, I want to generate a new random email forwarder for that person to use, such as kl2893dk@723jr2d.com
You probably won't have trouble getting in to other people's mailboxes anymore than if you had the email someemail@somesite.com. Most (all?) filter programs can't distinguish between f902j3@sdkfj.com and joe1243@site.com, provided that you have your email server set up correctly.
I think this is perfectly legitimate approach, because if I have tons of email forwarders, and I notice spam coming through one of them, I can just shut down that forwarder. It also contributes to my feeling of privacy online, so it's important to me.
I handle this a little differently.  I created a yahoo group called something like myredirect@yahoogroups.com.  I am subscribed, but no one else is.  I hand out that address and when someone sends mail to it, they accumulate awaiting approval.  Every so often I look through the senders and approve those who I want to hear from and the rest gets dropped in the bit bucket.  The nice part is that Yahoo does spam filtering before forwarding to the group.
You will potentially run into problems, but not because of the domain name. How do you plan on sending the mail? The main issue that I can see facing you is the PTR record: Many domains, and most of the large ones, will drop your mail as SPAM if you do not have a PTR DNS record.
If you do not have a business class Internet connection with a static IP, you will not be able to get this (you have to ask your ISP to do it too), but all is not lost. You can pay for a relay service (smarthost), and relay all your mail through them, and they certainly have the requisite PTR record.
However, there is a caveat with the above technique: some sites, whether intentionally or by accident, do not accept emails with a + in them. Thus, you might think that you have to give over your email to this scummy site that does not accept your +. Although this is obnoxious, because you can no longer use an arbitrary string of characters to identify the site, it is still workable. Gmail allows you to have an arbitrary number of dots (.) in arbitrary locations in your email address without affecting the "actual" email address. That is to say:
Spam filters look at the contents of e-mails to determine whether they might be spam or not and if you trust a sender you add their e-mail (either the specific address or the entire domain) to your whitelist.
Then, you can filter messages from this domain in whatever way you wish. Go to account settings -> filters and add a filter for emails that are "To:" the newly created e-mail address.
That being said, don't reinvent the wheel if you don't have to. Gmail has this kind of functionality built in, simply add a + after your real email address, followed by an arbitrary string of characters:
But my question is: If I set up my mail servers up like this, will I get into trouble getting through other people's spam box filters when sending and replying to emails? Is that how spam filters work?
Using this technique, you can generate "random" email addresses for scummy sites, even using the site name in the new email if the website allows all proper email addresses. If the website disallows + in email addresses, then you can add dots in random locations in your email in order to generate a "random" email. However, in the latter case, you have to keep track of where the dots are for which sites.
I actually do exactly that on my Exchange Server: I create different e-mail addresses for every business I do business with, and associate them all with my account. I have Dell@, Symantec@, etc. If one starts getting SPAM, I can delete it, but I also know who is not careful with my e-mail address.