What other steps can we take to ensure that our email goes through, in terms of email server setup and configuration ( similar to SPF, etc )
Plus make sure that your emails have the location address of the organisation/sender in the email and an easy to follow unsubscribe link. I swear I've read somewhere industry insiders reporting that the content of emails are checked for this sort of content and factor into the deliverability equation - if you're not already, check out Mark Brownlow's excellent No Man is an Iland website.
You could send new customers an introductory e-mail which includes a link to "verify" their e-mail address. This would confirm that your e-mail is not being trapped by spam filters while assuring that the address in your system is valid.
We looked into Goodmail's certified email program which provides whitemail listing for Yahoo and AOL (and some others) but they weren't interested! (our total email volume is less than 50,000/month and we currently use an ESP not on their list). I had a very helpful conversation with a sales guy at StrongMail who thought Goodmail was probably overkill for our volumes.
Make sure bounced emails are removed from your mailing lists. We use a neat piece of software called bbounce but googling for it I think they've pulled it now - was owned by the Whitaker Firm LLC
Alternatively, are there 3rd party email services that we can pay for that already manage these issues?
Get onto the ISP's feedback loops for spam complaints - and action those complaints (basically, if someone hits 'report spam' instead of unsubscribe then don't email them again) - details of the big ISPs are here: http://blog.wordtothewise.com/ISP-information/
Once you've done all the technology solutions, you can also outsource the human part of it (basically calling up ISP's if/when your IP gets blacklisted to plead your case).
Successfully delivering email to my clients is a pretty high priority at my company. We are of course fully opt-in, paid clients, no possibility of spam, the whole thing. The information we email is specifically requested from us by the recipient.
If you don't receive the verification, you can then take further steps to rectify whatever reason that customer is not receiving your e-mail.
All of the above are basically things that spam filters look for when evaluating a message, so your ultimate goal is to avoid as many triggers as possible.
I don't have any personal experience with it, so can't say whether it's worth it or not, but thought I'd mention it.