What would you think if this line of business was taken from mathematics and was put on medicine or another field where the consequences are more immediate? How long until an untrustworthy businessman on purpose alters the amateur papers so that they are hard to review or can fool the reviewer? Fooling the customers-amateur researchers is bound to happen, as with all businesses that rely on hard to get knowledge.
Speaker: The leaves of the tree are instances of a NP-complete problem, but are easy to solve by hand.
Definitely not. We do not need yet another academia alternative. Certain people have already provided those alternatives, providing both amateur and professional researchers and society with false hopes of a high-tech future (I have a particular venue in mind but I'd rather not mention it). 
$300 seems like too little to charge. It pays for only an hour or 2 of time. Any proof that short has already been ruled out.
The academic system was forged after centuries into what it is. I see attempts to skip the peer review system as simply "skipping the line". If an amateur researcher does not have the skill to understand why her proof is wrong, either alone or with some comments from reviewing, then there is a simple solution and that is that she must study the subject at hand harder. This is why educational institutions such as universities exist, to certify the knowledge of a certain person. If that person happens to be a genius that grasps the knowledge of the field instantly, fine, award that degree as soon as possible. But the vast majority must and should undergo training for their own sake and for the sake of society.
You can see that my point is that there are functional problems before even delving into the technical details. And since I am making an engineering argument, "programming" is a good example of what happens when amateurs are trying to do serious work with little or no training. The last thing any scientific community needs is the media glorifying the next "self-taught theoretical computer scientist who challenges the foundations of the whole scientific community from his garage", let alone a fragile science as ours, which still tries to get the recognition it deserves.
Let me respond to your suggestion with a counter-suggestion: Why don't you try setting up a business, acting as a middleman between amateurs and experts?  Amateurs pay to have their proofs evaluated.  You find an expert and pay the expert to evaluate the proof, taking a cut of the money for your middleman role.  Trying to run such a business is the most reliable way of finding out whether your idea is a feasible one.