Do you have access to a console in your VPS panel ? If so, try to look at /etc/ssh/sshd_config and check the line PermitRootLogin.
I have checked SSH process on the local machine as well and it seems all fine too. It claims it is running.
1) If your system is full. Means there is no space and other thing CPU utilisation or RAM is complete used so you cannot ssh or FTP.
I am having a very strange problem whereas I am suddenly unable to login to my VPS via SSH and FTP. 
I am at a loss here and not sure where I start start to diagnose this problem so any help is appreciated. It has only started having this problem today and has never had it before. 
I have accessed the VPS through a control panel and restarted it. I have also checked that the ssh service is running and it's working fine. 
the terminal hangs and times out. This has never happened before and is also happening when I attempt to FTP in. One thing I did do earlier that may have something to do with it is run a:
on the local machine. I would assume this wouldn't uninstall anything that would be needed by the machine?
At my work we have two gateways that allow requests in and out of the network. Yesterday, we had some internet issues and the default gateway was switched. This gateway had differing rules (stupidly) than the default one and was causing the problems that were occurring with my SSH and FTP requests. 
If you recently updated, newer OpenSSH in most distros have the login with a password option disabled.  Also just prior to that, most of them deprecated DSS keys, so if you are using an old style key (not keyboard) to login either re-enable the DSS keys (in both client and server) or regenerate a new RSA key.
To solve this, I changed the default gateway IP address on my local Linux machine to the original one and voila, I am able to make requests again.
Did you test with another account ? Maybe, you are not permitted anymore to login through SSH with root.
3) check if IP is pinged and hostname is not? It means problem is with DNS assigning provision. Check /etc/resolve.conf for that.