I had to do this for a while.  Wish I could replay some of the interesting (anonymous) voice mails that I received during that time.  It sucked, to be sure.  The last thing I wanted to be was a baby-sitter.
3- I have a responsibility to myself and to the company to do my job with integrity and to the best of my ability.  If I am doing that, I can sleep at night.
I know where you are coming from, but I have to say that your feelings of guilt are misplaced.  My take on this issue is pretty simple.
I wish to God that people would get it through their heads that they are being watched.  Corporate America is not a commune....
I had things anywhere from overzealous daytraders to fantasy football junkies to RAS users dialed in to surf porn to internal desktop users (sigh) surfing child porn (pre-filtering days).  It was mostly people I didn't know but every once in a while I ran across someone that I did now which was the worst part of it.
since you're getting paid for it, what is the problem ? as they are paid to work, not to browse for porn or chit-chat on messengers
It doesn't make it any more pleasant though, but bottom line is that rules are there for a reason and the actions of one person could very well end up compromising the availability of services for everyone else - even if it's something as minor as sucking up all of your bandwidth with Youtube sessions.
I've had to do it on a number of occasions too (up to and including handing staff member's PCs over to the cops for forensic analysis), and the only way is to emotionally distance yourself from the situation.  It's something you either learn to do or you don't.
2- Any negative consequences to a user are not because of the monitoring or reporting.  The consequences happen because the user has violated law, policy or common sense.  
On a proactive note, you are the IT manager.  Try to help be a solution to the problem instead of letting yourself be dragged down by the problem.  Begin or, more hopefully by this point in IT land, continue the awareness campaign that THINGS ARE MONITORED!  Tell your company's associates what is being monitored, what is being logged, and work with HR to set standards.  Get this information across clearly to new hires in orientation and new-hire info packets.
1- I have my job and the users have their jobs.  At times the policing duties are distasteful, but they are only required because of user transgressions.  I recognize that those duties will (at times) make me other than popular.
Not to be rude, but suck it up.  Your the IT Manager, part of your job is to snoop on what employees are doing when someone in management feels that it is warranted.  If you aren't up for the job, then perhaps it isn't the correct job for you.
On a reactive note, you are, as Denny said, the IT manager.  This part of the job sucks.  There is no getting around it.  The company has to protect itself, its resources, and its reputation and thus will be asking for reports.  Sorry, but this is just a fact of life and is no different than any other form of policing.  You will run into stupid people, it is inevitable.  If you let the stupidity overwhelm you then you will have a very short tenure in the position you're in.