If the equipment connected to your switchports can be expected to remain static, MAC address limiting (with violations configured to administratively down the switchport) could prevent any rogue device (not just WAPs) from being connected.
From a monitoring standpoint, you could run a tool like NetDisco to find switchports with more MAC addresses connected than you would expect. It wouldn't automatically prevent a rogue WAP from being introduced to the network, but it would let you find one after the fact.
Lastly, the WCS also has the ability to contain rouge APs/SSIDs.  It does with by using deauth and disassociate messages to any clients that are connected to that AP.
Wireless links have high packet loss and probably significant delay variation. By monitoring packet loss and delay you can detect connections over rouge access points.
Rogue Ap is just 1 kind of wifi threat, how about your wifi clients connecting to external APs visible from your office.
The WCS controlled APs (lightweight and normal) have the ability to detect and report when non-trusted SSIDs pop up and how many clients are connected to it.
Don't forget that you can also run 802.1x on wired ports.  802.1x can prevent unauthorized devices and port-security helps prevent someone from hooking up a switch and tailgating the port.  Remember that even with the best network controls in place, you must take measures at the PC level or users will simply be able to run NAT on their PC and bypass your network security measures.
If you have heatmaps set up and a decent number of access points  you stand a pretty good chance of being able to figure out where the access point is in proximity to your APs.  The only down side to this is that if you are in close proximity to any bars/coffee shops/college dorms/neighborhoods expect to see pages worth of "rogue" SSIDs that change as frequently as people move.
Rogue APs come in many forms shapes and sizes (ranging from usb/soft AP to actual physical Rogue APs). You need a system can monitors both the air and wired side and correlated the information from both sides of the network to deduce if a threat is actually present. It should be able to comb thru 100s of Ap and find the one that is plugged into your network 
You could replace wired Ethernet ports by using WiFi for all devices - eliminating need for people to setup their own APs. 802.1X to authenticate and IPsec to secure connection.
The WCS also has the ability to do some switchport tracing and alert you if rogues are plugged into your network. I have yet to have much luck getting this to work.  I honestly haven't had a whole lot of time to play with it.  By default, at least on my network, there seem to be quite a few false-positives with the way the trace works.  Without looking for sure, I believe it only looks at OUI of the MAC and if it matches then you get an alert about a rogue on the network.