I have had the same wifi issues with my lat 2012 Macbook Air (I7, 512ssd, 8GB) and haven't really been able to use it for the last three years as a result.  This is where it gets a little weird...
After putting up with the issue for a long time, I investigated the hub and discovered that the hup offered 2 conncections with the same SSID name at different speeds : 2.4 GHz & 5GHz. 
The WiFi on my iMac kept disconnecting each time the computer went to sleep, about 15 min when computer was not used. I solved it by going to energy saver in system preferences to extend the computer sleep time and unselected the "put the hard disk/s to sleep when possible"  The display sleep time doesn't matter, it's the hard drives that should stay awake much longer. It worked for me.
The problem is that OS X tries to put the WiFi antenna into a power saving mode if there's no data being sent or received, but with some WiFi APs, this leads to disconnecting. That ping command will ping your router every 0.2 seconds, preventing OS X from turning off the WiFi.
I did some more research, and came up with a temporary solution. Not the best thing to do, but it certainly worked for me. So whoever has the same problem, do this:
My solution: I connected to the Hub4 by typing the IP address into my browser, logged in and went to Advanced Settings/WIRELESS.
I had a BTHub4 and it offered 2 networks with the same name - I didn't realise it but it was a dual speed hub and the computer is supposed to automatically select the option that is best. 
Visit both the 2.4 GHz & 5 GHz options, and change the Wireless SSIDs so that they are different - in my case they are now BTHub4-FMCW2 and BTHub4-FMCW (previously both set as BTHub4-FMCW) . 
The Yosemite update 10.10.2 (published 27.1.2015) fixed this problem on my MacBook Air (13-inch, Mid 2013).
Just save the app, start it and let it run. This will prevent your mac from dropping the connection.
So, considering it's the exact same hardware, why is it that MS can somehow supply the drivers (or whatever it is) that make the wireless system work flawlessly, but Apple cannot?  I'm on my way to buy a boxed copy of 8.1 tomorrow (not that I'm a fan of 8.1, but at least the $2500 boat anchor now works like a dream (and I can now appreciate the build quality of the laptop.
I think that after sleeping my mac would just connect to the wrong SSID ... either it didn't have a password for it, or couldn't cope with the speed. Anyway it didn't connect properly ... I think the poor thing was confused and I could only connect the the Internet again by manually selecting the other connection - which was not always obvious because they had the same SSID name.
Now my Mac always connects to the 5GHz wireless connection when it wakes up and it never fails. Brilliant!
Since the computer was basically useless without an internet connection (and Apple refused to acknowledge that this was an "issue" ???), I partitioned and installed a trial copy of Windows 10 through bootcamp.  Now understand I have full AC wireless in my home and every other system has pretty much wired connection speed from anywhere in the house.  Except the non-functional Mac.  When I boot OSX, I continue to have the same wifi connection issues (will connect for a couple of seconds, and then revert to "Searching....", but when I boot the Windows side, my connection is instantaneous and solid.  No drops whatsoever.
I had a problem on my Macbook which caused me trouble for a long time, but I have solved it now. It may work for you.
Once you have saved, you can select whether your mac is connected to the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz connection in your network options - previously the connection would have been automatic ... and I think this caused confusion...( I don't know because I'm not an engineer, but this is what I thought) 