Also, try going into Preferences->Network->Advanced->DNS and reset your DNS entries; get rid of any extraneous ones.
Traditional Unix DNS lookup tools use more traditional Unix DNS resolver code, which means they may be able to resolve things that Cocoa apps can't (and vice-versa).
If you can look something up with dig but not with dns-sd, then you could try killing the mDNSResponder daemon and letting launchd automatically relaunch it (I've found that HUPping mDNSResponder isn't always enough).
To troubleshoot DNS problems on Mac OS X, you have to use both a traditional Unix DNS lookup tool like (pick one:) host,dig, and nslookup, as well as a modern tool that calls Mac OS X-specific DNS lookup APIs, such as dns-sd -Q.
The next step is to replace the @4.2.2.2 with the IP or hostname of your regular DNS server.  This is typically provided to you by your ISP.  If you get the same answer then you know DNS is not your problem and you can begin to look elsewhere.  You also what to perform these tests a few times to make sure you are getting good response times.  If you ever get:
The DNS lookup APIs that most Cocoa apps call get routed through the mDNSResponder daemon, which means if your GUI apps are having DNS lookup problems, dns-sd -Q will probably show you the same thing.
The ANSWER SECTION is the important part.  If you get an answer then you know your iMac is fine and it can "get" access to that domain.
Then you know that you are not getting back a response.  If this happens intermittently you may notice it more on the iMac versus your windows machines because of caching.  I have found in my experience Windows machines cache DNS responses longer than Macs.
The command line is going to be your friend.  1st you may not have a DNS issue at all.  You need to determine that first. The best tool for this job is dig.  Open Terminal and type
If that doesn't work, try (temporarily) making a new account on your iMac, or log into another one, and see if you can access the websites from those. 
To test something, you could go to Preferences->Network->Advanced->DNS and add a DNS entry for Google's public DNS 8.8.8.8. If that resolves the issue, then you will have to figure out what DHCP settings your router is using when handing out IP addresses and DNS info. If your router is getting it's DNS info from your ISP, then that could be your problem, maybe just a slow response. You don't have to use your ISPs DNS settings.  