The answer depends on your target audience. Do you want people to play your flash game on their Netbook and/or their flash supporting Playbook or Android tablet? If so, then memory usage over and beyond 50 MB is likely going to be an issue. If you only expect your game to be played on tricked out gaming rigs, then taking up 100-400 MB memory is likely not going to be a problem. 
Memory starts and defaults back to around 5-10MB on my setup. With that in mind, here are the peak memory usages in the first 3-5 minutes of gameplay for some popular games:
Absurd, but I'm sure you can point at the game and say it has millions of users. (yup, just checked, 14 million monthly users, blah)
FWIW, I was helping out a family member complaining of a slow PC. She plays CafeWorld on facebook. Investigation lead to Firefox/the flash plugin taking up almost a gigabyte of memory usage. I thought this might have been a fluke, having experienced many browser-based memory leaks over the years, closed everything and tried it with another browser. I watched the memory usage as it slowly crawled back up to the 970~ mb mark as all the game's various assets loaded.
The issue, may be Flash's ability to address this much memory quickly. I'm not a flash developer so I don't really know, but if your game needs this much memory it probably has a lot of supporting code, which is where, even on "gods-own-machine," you may run into issues.
That was the strategy behind FLV, to compress the video code for download, and then decompress it assuming fast CPU and lots of memory in the client.
According to your tags it says "browser-based-games" depending on the game and its complexity, I would say 100mb most likely too much, unless you are creating a large mmo style flash game(even that is very large!)
Smeet is a Facebook Social Game, it ran at around 100 MB, and peaked at 200 when I entered an area with lots of characters and assets. Chibi Knight has fairly simple assets, but an extremely large multi-screen background image (non-tiled), which explains it's high memory usage. The two lowest memory games are both non-scrolling and single-screen (at least in the first couple minutes), explaining their low usage.
I've been wondering about this as well, so I decided to check out some popular games and watch Firefox's plugin container memory consumption.
I would differentiate between download size and memory size, some assets are large, other game related data structures bloat the client's memory but require little bandwidth to download.