Having said all this: I am not so sure it is a smart idea to do this. Maybe if you did this from the very beginning, but now there is both data on that drive and in the "My Documents"/"Program Files" folder and the drive. No matter what you do, if you (re)install windows, there will always be data there. And as you can see in the latest screenshot, the folder you want to mount to HAS to be empty (makes sense right?)
Do note that if you want, you can reset windows to a fresh state, and choose to keep your files. This will ensure that everything you need to backup will be moved to a folder windows old.
So I suggest just not doing it and just whenever you install a program install it in your other drive (at least, that's what I'm doing) that way I can also choose to install a program on my SSD if I want to (for some programs/games it gains quite a bit of performance, and I didn't buy an SSD to put absolutely nothing on it ^^)
Any application that you install will have to be installed again. If you install it to a different location in the new windows, that does not matter.
When you format the Windows partition, you'll lose the registry.  Missing registry entries will render most applications unusable -- there's actually a term for programs that work anyway, xcopy install.  In addition to COM registrations, many user preferences are stored in the registry.
And for "My Documents": I know there is a way to tell windows to use an other location for that, I don't know how to do it off the top of my head, but I know for sure that is possible. (If not I have a reaaaly weird memory....)
You can attempt to export parts of the registry and restore them to the new system, but that defeats the purpose of having a clean Windows install, and the only reliable way to preserve registry content is to do an upgrade (not clean) install anyway.
Make sure you backup your profile entirely, including the AppData folder. This'll be where most of your settings are.
After that click the Add-button and in the window that pops up you can select a path to mount it on:
Yes, that is possible. Go to "Disk Management" (search for "Computer Management" in start menu, it is in there). Right-click the drive (technically I should say "partition") you want to mount and choose "Change Drive Letter and Paths..."