[-] if the backup gets bigger than one single disc it gets much more complicated (you could span an LV across multiple discs and use those as md-devices - but than you always have to pick the 2+ discs belonging together)
Simplest option is to hire another server from Rackspace (or another provider), VPN over to it and Robocopy your files. Make a script that does some simple Father, Grandfather, Son stuff and test test test... All of this can be automated.
[+] if you're not going home straight after work and lose the backup-disc in bar data should be safe because of the encrypted container
As Laura said more requirements would help here however I can tell you what I use to handle my personal backups.
As with all backups it's important to do a DR day periodically because you may have your data, but what if you forgot to have a copy of the application you are running handy...!
My backups are scheduled with cron and then performed by duplicity. I chose this tool because it supports many methods of moving your backup data(ssh,sftp, s3, local, ...). More importantly, you can use it to do encrypted backups. This is handy when you're dumping data to another location that you dont' have as much control over.
It depends on the size/shape of your backup requirement, your technical ability and the frequency of data change...!
One method within the limits you set would be to find a close bank with safety-deposit boxes and put them in there.  How close it is would be a trade-off between convenience / risk.  The closer it is, the higher the chances that a disaster would also effect that location.
Storing disks in someone's home is only a good idea if multpiple people have keys to that home.  There are of course companies which provide offsite media services including pickup/delivery and management of who has access.  This of course costs money, but not necessarily very much as compared to loss of your data.  We use IronMountain and I was shocked to discover how little it actually cost/month to have a container from them.  We actually have 4 containers 3 of which are off site at any given time.
I have a backup arrangement with a good friend. They host a external USB drive on their workstation and I host one of theirs. We each have limited ssh access to each others machines to push data to our remote drives. Before this I pushed data to a server I had access to with adequate space. 