So my advice to find it, is to use every tool at hand. There's no single tool able to help you with such a broad issue. Another tool highly overlooked in every OS is the log analyser. Console on mac, /log on linux and Event Viewer on windows. It can give you some clues on what might be happening with your system, if you're lucky. On windows it is overlooked for a good reason: most of times it doesn't log enough info.
As Matt said, there are too many reasons that could steal your disk space, specially on windows. Yes, it could be from a spyware or virus, but picture that issue as a small computer fever and as such it's not a good diagnosis source.
You could also clear cache. There might very well be up to 1 GB space used. Though that wouldn't be a sudden decrease.
I love WinDirStat, from splattne's answer, and it is indeed a perfect tool for analyzing current disk usage, but not for finding a sudden free space lose. It'd be much better to follow RedGritty's advice and do a windows search for big files in the last days - or even mixing both. Don't forget that log files do grow up as well and are a very common responsible disk space eaters, like Viper said.
Once you find the culprit, there's a good chance you could make good use of msconfig to "removing" the source of the issue. I used it for years on my late windows machine and no anti-virus or any kind of malware protection at all.
For citing another reason not cited yet, back in the days, disk fragmentation were a big issue. I'm not sure if it holds true today, but Microsoft still advices on doing it in windows 7. So go ahead and defrag once in a while, paying attention ideally you should have 15% free space before doing it.
I have the same issue as my C drive filling continuously without any reason. Whenever I refresh C drive properties after a 5 Minutes of interval disk size would full by 100 MB. I delete 10 GB data and in couple of hour again C drive full. I turn off System restore feature but it doesn't helped.
Then I diagnose C drive space by WinDirStat then I realized that SQL Server Reporting services creating the Dump file which filled my drive space 100+ GB and continuously filling up. 
Another source of the increase is having Windows Previous Versions turned on. This feature saves copies of system and user application files (e.g. Word) whenever you change them. You can then recover back to a previous version if you need it. Go to Computer|Proerties|Previous Versions to see what you have. This facility can be turned off.
Use WinDirStat, a freeware disk usage statistics viewer and cleanup tool for Microsoft Windows to see what's filling up your harddisk.