I just had this moment of enlightenment, realizing that PCs are crap. No really. You have hardware specifications that are so unclear, everyone implements it slightly different, causing tiny compatibility issues. If PCs weren't crap, then there would be no incompatibilities when using certain RAM types (As long as their standard match the one on the mainboard - there is absolutely no excuse why DDR3-1066 RAM should be incompatible to DDR3-1066 Mainboards), or with certain USB Devices.
For those of you who don't want to work with x86/x64 crap, YMMV, but I've learned enough in my 7 years of SysAdmin to know that it's not my job.
While still at uni, I've got a job as webadmin, so it definitely closer to being sysadmin, then developer. Then I gradually did more and more development, also as company grew there was more IT task. It got to the point, when I've told my boss, that it's too much of a workload to do both things, we've hired guys that where strictly sysadmins, while I've dedicated myself 100% to development.
Also, since I also know Oracle (was once defined as a database programmer for a time) I've been called in to assist with DBA tasks as needed.
Also, IMO a high percentage of dev jobs are all about maintaining crappy applications or customizing commercial packages. Ugh. To me, sysadmin seemed to present more opportunities to be creative and have a visible impact on the systems that keep a business running.
Programmer to sysadmin to programmer to sysadmin to programmer (who also assists with sysadmin stuff occasionally) again.  :-)  I end up doing whatever the job I can find requires (and those sysadmin positions were all combined with netadmin as well)!
I found system administration more interesting because I had an opportunity to work in a large distributed environment with lots of moving parts to integrate and maintain. 
So you have Hardware that is broken by design because the specifications are useless, and on top of that you have bugged Software. I just realized then, that SysAdmin is a job with nothing to win. You can not "fix" issues - you can just use duct tape to temporarily resolve some symptoms, but you're always on the losing side because you don't have a good foundation to start with.
I started out a web developer on a virtual university project.  Over time as I became responsible for app servers (like Adobe ColdFusion) I became more and more involved in web server admin.  Branched out in Unix and Windows servers over the years.
Now I've migrated to being a Solaris admin due to staffing challenges, so I'm becoming a more full-fledged sysadmin (while still programming and maintaining web servers).  I'm also slated to become a multimedia developer if one of my projects gets off the ground to generate streaming content for my current employer.
So instead of always taking the crap when broken hardware breaks, I've switched into the field of actually creating value. Selfish? Maybe. Yes, my software is buggy at times, and in the end build on top of the same flawed foundation, but as a developer, I feel like I'm actually doing something of worth.
That being said: Respect to everyone who does the SysAdmin job with a passion. It's an ungrateful and often unsatisfactory job, but everyone who keeps servers up and running is a hero in my book.