I've just installed Windows Technical Preview(Windows 10) using an disc burnt with the iso. And my answer is a yes, when it shows 4 boot options on my screen (Ubuntu, Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and Windows Technical)
Note: This is an early preview. Carefully read the information below before you continue with the download.
Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise should work with the same devices and programs that work with Windows 8.1. In some cases, a device or program might not work or may require an update, or you might need to uninstall some programs and then reinstall them after installing the preview. 
To access the Windows Store, and to download and run apps, you need an active internet connection, a screen resolution of at least 1024 x 768, and a Microsoft account.
The next version of Windows is engineered for the way you live and work, protected against cyber risks and threats, and managed for continuous innovation.
What you can do is download the ISO via one of the many sites that share the direct download site. Install windows 10. Then use the Linux mint live cd to restore grub. This allowing you to dual boot. 
http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/evaluate-windows-technical-preview-for-enterprise#evaluation_3941
Downloading Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise could take a few hours. The exact time will depend on your provider, bandwidth, and traffic (ISP fees may apply). For technical questions, please visit the Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise Forums. 
Please sign in to download Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise. If you have not registered before, you will be asked to do so.
Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise is prerelease software that may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. It is designed for IT professionals interested in trying out the next version of Windows on behalf of their organizations. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here. Some product features and functionality may require additional hardware or software. We do not recommend that you install this preview if you are not an IT professional or not professionally managing corporate PCs or devices. We also do not recommend that you install this preview on your primary home or business PC. 
Upon installation, Windows will prompt you to activate. A product key is not required for this software. For recovery scenarios, the following key may be used: PBHCJ-Q2NYD-2PX34-T2TD6-233PK
If you decide that you want to install Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise using one of the provided ISO files, you won't be able to uninstall it. In addition, after you install Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise, you won't be able to use the recovery partition on your PC to go back to your preview version of Windows. A clean installation of your former operating system will be required, and you will need to re-install all of your programs and data. 
I wanted to know if I could do a clean install of windows 10 preview alongside linux to give it a spin.
For 64-bit installations of Windows 10 Technical Preview for Enterprise, a small number of older PCs will be blocked from installing the preview because they don't support CMPXCHG16b, PrefetchW, and LAHF/SAHF. 