Have all procedures documented, as should be part of his job. If he were hit by a disgruntled user's car tomorrow you should be able to have a new sysadmin get up to speed fairly quickly with the policy and procedure guides.
It's a red flag if they're too secretive. But it's a problem if management won't let go of the reigns too. And it's worse when people in management keep sticking their fingers into IT if they're not IT people (not saying you're not, since I don't know what you do...but it can be a problem when engineers and/or programmers, who think they know what it's like to do sysadmin tasks, really kinda don't, and insist on doing things their way...)
The sysadmin needs enough freedom to do his job and feel like he or she isn't being second guessed all the time or mistrusted (or why would you have hired him?) Let the sysadmin do the work, but know that he or she can be audited if need be. 
Of course, setting up all these things requires at least one other linux savvy person you do trust so if you don't have that, you're just gonna have to trust this guy.
You give him his own account with sudo access, that way everything he does is logged.  You can even somewhat restrict what he can & can't do with sudo.  Set up logwatch to email you daily, & all sudo commands will be listed.  That'll give you some kinda monitoring.  If you stop getting the email or if no sudo commands are listed, you'll know something is up.
Also, your sysadmin shouldn't mind having safeguards in place for protecting his or her actions from fudgey fingers. Sudo logs things. System passwords should be kept safe and accessible if needed, but only to people who actually need it (and it should be known if someone wants to get access to them.)
This isn't to say that all people are completely trustworthy, but sysadmins have by necessity nearly unlimited amount of access so they can do their jobs. If you're worried about security (which you shouldn't be faulted for, seriously...most don't pay attention to it) you may want to work with your sysadmin to install safeguards for auditing.