First of all here in network we don't have any thing called high level address or low level address but we have physical address (MAC address) which is  L2 address and have logical address (IP address) which is L3 address. And by using ARP we map both to gather to get something called ARP table. 
The key to answer your questions is that for PC1 to communicate with PC2 what  PC1 has and what PC1 want and how PC1 get what it want
So simply in our case we know 4 things from 5, we know SRC MAC, SRC IP , payload ,DST IP but we don't know DSP MAC. So the PC1 will send this packet as it is and for the part which it don't know it will send the Broadcast address of it (FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF) and only the PC which has this DST IP will replay this broadcast by its own MAC address which exactly what the PC1 need .
Follow-up #2: At what point do we broadcast? Say the sink is at 23.235.37.67. Do we actually broadcast to 23.235.37.67? If so, what makes it a broadcast, rather than a single user transmission? Why not broadcast the entire packet if there is only a single computer on this IP?
We want to use high level adresses to the highest degree possible but ultimately, we actually need the sinks MAC adress to transmit to it.
Follow-up #1: I recall reading that at least for Ethernet networks, broadcasting is basically as cheap as single transmissions. But at the time of sending the packet, we do not know if the sink is on Ethernet so we can not assume broadcasting is cheap?
sending packet with Broudcast MAC address is ARP Request and sure the PC2 replay by some thing called ARP replay
Broadcasts interrupt every host on the broadcast domain, which is not a good thing.  ARP must broadcast in order to find the MAC address, but, after that, the MAC address gets cached in an ARP table (it eventually times out).  Caching the MAC address prevents excessive broadcasts from ARP - only the first packet needs to ARP (broadcast), and the rest of the stream can use the ARP cache.
This tables contains the hosts which  PC can communicate with them (like phone book, you will call the persons you have there numbers only, and for person you don't have his number you will ask)