Yes, I've just pulled apart a random Microsoft keyboard's cable, and used it to replace the cable in a mouse (that had a malfunctioning cable). Exactly the same connector was present on both cables.
I have a high end mouse and it'd be silly throwing it away or even sending it away for a chance to be fixed in weeks when one could just replace the cord with at most some soldering.
If you look inside a normal USB cable, you will notice that it's two twisted pairs, and runs inside a shield. If you look inside a mouse cable, they are usually straight cables, and thinner, and unshielded.
I'm not aware of such products. However, mice run on a low clock of 1.5 MHz instead of 12MHz typical for USB devices. Also the power lines in mouse cable doesn't need to carry 500 mA specified by USB, only about 30mA. This means the requirements on mouse cable aren't nearly as stringent as on general purpose USB cables, allowing to make them cheaper, thinner and more flexible.
Unsafe choice number three, something i haven't tried yet, use just about any other kind of cable, like from a headset. Care needs to be taken to use such cables which prove solid in long time use. Often, headset cables are made not with solid wire insulation but by lacquering the wire strands. The lacquer will rub off eventually and there will be a short, which can damage the computer - whether there will be any damage will depend, besides luck, mostly on the quality of the PSU but also on the mainboard. Often, neither low-end nor gamer (fused rail) PSUs provide sufficient protection, but there are PSUs designed for safety which do.
And don't forget to complain. Making a cable which will not break in your lifetime isn't rocket science, and that's something all mice manufacturers should do, for any mouse that retails for 10$ or more.
The thicker part is for relief. It's supposed to be slightly more rigid than the cable and has the intention that the cable doesn't bend too sharply at the spot where it enters the mouse, prolonging the time till the cable breaks. It's necessary for thin cables, but is not necessary for thicker, less flexible cables.
Safe choice number one, is identify the point where cable broke, and shorten it. Chances are, it broke right where it enters the mouse or the relief. You may not even need soldering skills because the plug inside the mouse is usually crimped, not soldered.