In most cases with decent memory and a routine of only a few files in use, the OS will cache things in memory and you won't notice too much difference. Only benchmarks will tell.
Fragmentation would lead to some slowness. Overall it probably won't be anything your user notices unless they're doing a lot of video work or working with huge files. 
Basically, does the 'fullness' of the filesystem cause a decrease in performance, or is it just fragmentation that slows things down?  And if it does, does it make a meaningful difference?
The context of the question is a Windows computer (so the filesystem in question is NTFS) that is filling up with data that can probably be removed.  But I don't know whether it's worth the time to weed through it, or whether we should just defrag and move on.
if you are using Windows 2008, then you can use Deduplication facility that can free up some unnecessary files that file up your hard disk
Fragmentation is minimized when all files have space to be placed. The only types of files that get fragmented on a largely empty NTFS partition are Logfiles and directory metadata, because they are constantly expanding. If you frequently search through logs or have a large throughput of created and deleted files, regular defragmentation may be beneficial even when the drive is less full.
In the end...this is another "it depends" questions. Depends on large files vs. small, usage patterns on the computer, and just how fragmented fragmented is and how perceptive your users are to a few seconds difference in performance.
For most intents and purposes, filling up a drive has no performance implications until you get over 75% full. This can be off a bit depending on usage, but for a typical workstation load this is true.
Won't hurt anything if you run MyDefrag. Freeware; it also tries to "optimize" some of the layout of files to areas of the disk where access will be a bit faster. 
Defrag and move on.  It isn't worth the time to save a few dozen GB.  But to answer your question, the only thing that a new disk has is all the files at the start so seek times are less.  But once it has been used, files can be anywhere, so defrag will help.
Actually, I think it would slow down if there's a ton of seek operations, thousands of tiny files that are hit a lot.