I just tested failover with my Mac mini.  I have two network interfaces configured, Ethernet and WiFi.  Both were in good standing as the test commenced, with the Ethernet having precedence in service order.
Great question btw!   I have had a similar situation happen to me back when I was working for Intel, but I do not remember the interfaces not automatically switching over when one of them was disconnected.   
This leads me to a more general question:  How do I divide the network traffic up to take advantage of both network interfaces, thus increasing my throughput?
Now, if you had two Ethernet interfaces (as opposed to Ethernet and WiFi), you could use a technology known as Link Aggregation to 'bond' two similar interfaces to make your computer think it was a single Ethernet connection.   The network protocol that provides this functionality is called LACP (link aggregation control protocol).   Unfortunately, in order to do Link Aggregation, not only does the dual NIC need to support this functionality, but the gear you are connecting to also needs to support LACP and have all of its settings be the same as on the client side.   This feature is common on high end routers and switches, but most consumer grade gear does not support this.   
Well, it didn’t last night - when I went to bed, my wife asked about an ethernet cable I had run through the kitchen, and thinking that the wireless connection would handle the traffic if the ethernet was removed, I told her just to remove the ethernet cable, retract the line out of the kitchen, shut the door, and go to bed, as I rolled over...  :-D
I repeated the test a few times, looking at different network indicators.  Failover to WiFi happened as one would expect.  One ping packet dropped on disconnect; none dropped on reconnect.
Since your WiFi adapter and your Ethernet adapter are two totally separate interfaces, you cannot simply join the two together and get increased throughput.   This is also due to the fact that the theoretical link speed of Wireless (varies depending on technology used) and Ethernet (10/100/1000) are quite different.   According to Wikipedia
This morning, Mac Mail, and other tools (Safari) couldn’t get to the Internet, even though there was a wireless connection to my WiFi router.  So, I naively restarted both Mail and Safari, and they still couldn’t see the Internet.
So, why mightn't this have happened for you..?  I thought one reason might be a Thunderbolt transceiver dongle not reporting a carrier drop to the kernel, but in your screen capture, it seems like the system is aware there is no Ethernet connection.
I thought that TCP/IP would simply use the network interface which is available if the other is not?
In summary:  On Mac OS X, Version 10.9.2, running on a Mid-2011 Mac Mini, failover works as expected.
If there are two network connections attached to my MacBook Pro, and I remove one, shouldn’t the networking just use the other?
So, I opened Network in System Preferences, and changed the order so that Wi-Fi came first, not second, as in: