/home, /etc and /var.  I run a debian box so I also do a nightly 'dpkg --get-selections >/etc/debian.pkgs' so I can track what's installed.
Tape gets collected the next morning and goes away (off site) for 2 weeks before it's put back in rotation.
The backup send a report with a good subject on success or failure.  I check that I have received the status messages at least a couple times a week.
Dirvish uses rsync and the --link-dest option to hard-link identical files for each backup together.  The backup is fast, it doesn't waste space, and restoring is as simple as copying files.
What tools help you to make this as easy as possible and what is your preferred approach to the matter?
Depends on the server, but I almost always want /etc, /root, and /var/lib/dpkg.  I then add any data directories.
For the very crucial things, I have a live spare running. As in: a second server that sits there and idles (and is my toy basicly) but has all the files/services of the first one. When the first one goes down, this one can take over in a flash, all that needs to be done is change a DNS record.
I have finally set up a RAID6 server together with rsnapshot which is using rsync and hardlinks between different backups, so this saves place but makes restore a simple copy operation.
/etc/ gets backed up, /home/ and any other directory that will ensure me getting another one up and running asap when it goes down.
I run incremental every night, rotating the last 14 snaphots, accumulate nightly into to a set of every second weeks snapshots, and then quaterly sets and yearly sets.
Especially the last question has been troubling me. Compressing backups into tarballs works okay, but causes a serious performance issue when I suddenly need to restore a backup. On the other hand, when not compressing the backups and syncing them to another server, there is a serious risk of creating inconsistent user permissions.
For offline backup I have just bought a SAS LTO4 tape streamer which I just have received but not installed yet, but I plan then store some of the rsnapshot backups from time to time and store the tapes at my office.
There have been several questions related to providing backups, but most of them were either too specific, intended for home usage or Windows-based.
I do a full backup quarterly and nightly incrementals.  This is mostly to cut down on storage costs at S3.