well there are no performance issues. the front ports are part of the cabinet and the back ports are part of motherboard.(but the front ports are also attached to the motherboard using wires.) Back ports are used to provide more sockets for connecting peripherals on back. and the front one are for easily and quickly removable peripherals.As the back ports are soldered to MB it is better to use them less frequently. but its up to user.
Oversimplification is a common teaching tool, and one of the reasons that technical fields must re-teach certain subject at the college level to correct these errors or over-specifications in high school level classes.
The front ports are not directly connected to your motherboard. Instead, there is a cable inside the computer case that is connected to a regular pin header on your motherboard. The length of this cable and the fact that it’s a pin header connection make it more susceptible to (EM) interference. The internal USB cable may even be unshielded.
It depends entirely on the motherboard. With my motherboard (Sabertooth X58) there are two rear USB 3.0 ports and that's it. The rest of the rear USB and the front USB are 2.0. Older boards had a similar dichotomy regarding 2.0/1.0. Some modern boards have less 3.0 ports to reduce costs (but usually use 3.0 up front). However, there is no reason I am aware of for front USB to be "dangerous" to a device, just sub-optimal for those boards with no front 3.0.
They need to make a statement for the people most likely to need the statement made. More technically minded individuals will probably know that the generalization made int he manual is too narrow. For the less technical, if they follow what is written, they are more likely to not have problems with the device.
With respect to your flash-memory stick, the manufacturer of that device is gambling on the idea that the ports on the back are going to be the highest supported standard at the time of the board's manufacture. Since they did not design your motherboard, they have no way of knowing for sure.
I have had motherboards in the past that provided usb 1 on the headers (which connected to the front of the case), and provided usb 2 to the ones mounted/attached to the back of the board itself (aka the back ports). 
The back ports are (usually) directly connected to your motherboard. Their on-board connection to the actual USB controller is designed to resist (EM) interference, as required by the FCC. So is the external connector.
This additional cable also means there’s additional resistance, reducing maximum voltage and thus power. Some devices (like 2.5″ hard disks) that can barely run on a single USB may fail in this environemnt.
There is a difference in power level only, as some device needs high power (500 mA instead of 100) to charge or function. Where the port is located does not matter. Not sure what it means really in your warranty card. You might ask the manufacturer. Many of my devices such as netbooks and laptops have ports on the sides, neither back nor front, actually.