It is not a matter of if a connection starts on the wireless it stays there, and I just need to restart my apps. All connections, new and old, are started on the wireless if it is available, irregardless of the wired connection being active or not.
Right now I toggle my hardware wifi switch on my laptop, but I would prefer if I could tell Windows to prefer one connection over the other.
Looks like Windows (XP, Vista, 7) are supposed to do this automatically. Windows uses the lowest 'metric' connection. You can manually alter these metrics if it isn't working correctly, but in most cases, wired should be preferred over wireless automatically. Check the source below for more how-to and explanation.
I tried every answer I could find but what worked in the end is me stumbling across right-clicking my wireless connection in the list of all available wireless connections (left-click up arrow near clock, then left-click on your connection, then right-click on the wireless connection you want to have available, but not be the default connect-to choice, and then clicking "Properties").  Under the "Connections" tab, uncheck "Connect automatically when this network is in range."  This was even still necessary after changing the Metrics!
Hopefully that helps you understand that it is probably not the 'metricing' that is choosing the wireless adapter but rather that Windows no longer auto-switches as it did in XP.
I'm not sure why Microsoft thought this was preferred behavior.  I would have preferred a pop-up asking me whether to enable the wired adapter instead at the risk of ongoing downloads and sessions.  Windows 7 makes me answer all kinds of other popups.
When I am in an area that has a wireless network and I plug in my wired network so I can get a better connection (faster, more reliable), Windows continues to use the wireless network for everything.
Which means that when I am on wireless at work in a conference room and then drop the laptop back on the dock, I have to disconnect (software) from the wireless connection OR disable (hardware switch) the wireless adapter to get back on the wired network.
http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_7-networking/how-make-win-7-to-prefer-wired-over-wireless/97ae998b-5743-e011-9767-d8d385dcbb12?tab=question&status=AllReplies#tabs