Sure, the client may have some information, but by thinking carefully on what information you are willing to share, and on what players can do with it you can at least mitigate the impact of client hacks.
In 3D, when model comes into play, you can still just change the shader to one that simulates refraction, using just model's surface, discarding the colour. Even when model is replaced somehow, the effect remains.
The ripple effect could be done through shader code. You can disable texture usage in this mode so the simple texture change is no longer a problem.
b. You observe something in a different way (sound if something is in the area; closeness indication like a radar with or without direction)
For example, what if players leave footprints, and "footprint created" messages are sent from the server independent of player location?  Every player leaves footprints so you can't make the footprint model more visible without covering the arena in them and making every individual print less noticeable, but if a player sees a footprint appear without a visible character they know someone is there.
The screenshot in the quesition seems to be between 1 and 2 as it probably is based on limited information, but you still see the outline which could give away some information.
You can't implement a shimmer effect without making it easy to exploit... but what if you used an indirect means of showing that someone is around, a means that also applies to visible players?
a. You see something but it is not on the spot (Bridge or bush moves, but its large so you don't know where to aim; footsteps only become visible with a 2 second delay): In this case the client only knows that there is something, but not where/what exactly. 
Yes, any information that you send to the client,  can be showm more obviously than you intended. But here is the trick:
You can also do stuff like having small pebbles that are knocked around, rustling grass when someone is walking through it, or ripples that appear when someone moves through water.  If 'signs' only apply to certain locations or materials, this could add extra strategy that forces invisible characters to move carefully and avoid things that will give away their positions.
Modifying pre-compiled shader would be as hard as modifying game code and I think it is one level harder than some texture lookup within game files.