(Edit: after reading your question more carefully, I don't think this is related to your issue.  It's likely a permissions issue.  Anyway the following still applies...)
I would just format the drive and be done with it. If you really have doubts, you can search the registry for:
.ocx files are like .dll's in that they are components used by other programs.  So if that other program is open it is likely considered "in use" by Windows.  
I cannot confirm this, but every now and then, when I try to delete a user profile, Windows will not let me delete the user.dat registry file, saying it is in use. I know that it is not, but I have always thought that it was just because the name was the same as the one in use for the current user, which is from a different location. I tend to think this is a similar situation.
Since the registry, particularly the user.dat part of it. comprises a user's account settings, you can be sure it's open and "in use" as long as you are logged in.  For some reason it tends to stay opened after you logged off most of the time (likely by a program forgetting to close it before that program terminates).  You can kill it by rebooting, logging in to another administrator account, and deleting it without logging in to that account.
If you have Internet Explorer or another browser open, that could be a cause.  Internet Explorer is itself made up of a number of "COM" components and it's possible another program is using such a component which is loaded that particular .ocx.  Seems silly, and it'd be nice if you could easily find which components belong to which program and which are currently active, but that's Windows.  
As it turns out, there were a couple of explicit "deny" permissions in the box. I'd forgotten that those override the "allow"s. Got rid of those and I was able to delete the file without a problem. Kind of embarrassing that I didn't see them before!
You might be able to delete it from Safe mode.  You defintely could delete it by booting a Linux live CD or Windows PE CD and deleting it from there.
Also, sometimes it is necessary to do this process with the parent folders containing the files in question.
Look for Unlocker 1.9.1 , a nice little utility to delete files that don't want to be deleted....usually constantly running in memory and not doing anything useful anyways.