These devices worry the IT departments of the companies we sell them to, and rightfully so. They worry about administering proxy settings on hundreds of devices, about the possibility of them downloading viruses or other security risks into their network, that it runs Windows, about the devices downloading software updates, and so on....
Microsft System Management Server 2003 has a Device Feature Pack add-on that provides Windows CE device management features to the platform.  
The best analogy I can think of is a business that had a bunch of Tivos connected to the internet. There is a business need for the devices but IT doesn't really want them on the network. 
I only know a little bit about networking, but it's still my job to solve this, so any help is deeply appreciated.
Deploying this or the equivalent product for the latest version of SMS should provide you all the management capabilities you need for Windows CE devices.
Make a server component that can live on a host inside the customer's corporate network.  This server will be a central administration host for the CE devices.  The server would be responsible for connecting with your site and the CE devices would talk to this central server.
You don't want to have any port connectable unless you explicitly need it to function(RDP, vnc, http, etc...). If you can secure the device from remote exploits in common software (IIS, MSSQL, etc...) you can have your customers run any vulnerability scans they need on the device to ensure its not going to help propagate malware.
What can we do to alleviate the IT departments' concerns and make configuration a minimal effort. If we could funnel them through something like a VPN to a single server that connects to the company's proxy server, would that do it? 
I would segment the network so as to afford the wireless devices access to the internet (which is what most people are looking for), and deny any access to the internal network. 
My company makes devices that run Windows CE and must connect to our website through a customer's internet connection. We sell these devices to all sorts of customers with a multitude of network configurations and security needs. 