By clicking on the cell and selecting a different Style (Home > Styles > 'Normal' for example) the variant formatting was removed and I was able to change the cell format back to its normal state.
I bounced around blogs, forums, etc. and found out that this had something to do with the values being saved as Text vs Number.  Eventually I strolled upon a Microsoft article with an alternative solution.
I also have the same problem, but none of those are working, Mine is incapable on aligning because some of the cells are merged. If that is the case, follow this instructions:
I tried some of these suggestions but they didn't work for me. However, I found that the thing that did work in my specific situation, was, to remove the comma in the number format section. Uncheck the box that says "Use 1,000 separator (,).  I was using several columns, on an amortization sheet and the one column that refused to "center align" was the one that had 2 decimal places - the rest just had 1.
The columns above and below may have spaces in them that the other columns do not. So when they center align they are aligning to bigger content. Remove the spaces in the other columns and it should correct it. 
In Excel 2016 I found the issue was being caused by an incorrect Style being applied to the cell - none of the other Answers was able to correct this.
I have an excel file that has been exported from a SQL Server Reporting Services report.  The cells in the first column are a list of store numbers and should all be center aligned but for some reason a few of them are left aligned.  When I go to correct the alignment by setting it to center nothing happens.  When I go and change the column type from General to Number to Text still nothing happens.  However, when the column is set to Text and then I go edit (F2 then 'enter') the cell it magically aligns back to the middle.  This would be great except for the fact that I don't want to have to do this for each individual cell.  
Has anyone ran into this issue before.  Is there any way to correct the alignment of all the cells in the column without going to each one individually?