More importantly, it contains detailed performance analysis for different screen resolutions in the section First-Person 3D Shooters. My personal conclusion is that performance-wise there are only slight differences between the models. Which probably means that the lower model of GTS 240 is inferior to the Radeon.
I'm suspicious of OEM-only products like the 240. Why isn't this released to consumers? Well, maybe it's only there so that Dell can boast about having “1GB VRAM!!”. This amount of memory probably isn't justified by the specs of the GPU itself; 1GB is big even on a full 250.
Hell, “Starcraft and video editing” will run just fine on the poxiest of current integrated chipsets.
You say you're not doing high-end gaming; if that's the case both those cards are hugely overpowered and will generate far more heat and noise than you need. Don't buy a big butch power-sucking 3D monster unless you're really going to use it.
The noise on the HD4870 isn't terrible if you go into the Catalyst Control Center and manually adjust the fan speed (it is in the overdrive section). I have mine set around 38% and it runs perfectly cool even under load and is no louder than any other video card.
It contains this comparison chart that tells you everything technical that you ever wanted to know and were afraid to ask about.
Actually, a 9800GT would be perfect for you.  They're still available, are cheap, very quiet, and unless you decide to get some crazy complex game they're more than sufficient.
ATI are generally considered to be winning the mid-end at the moment. Take a look at eg. the 4650, which is widely available with passive cooling (zero noise). It's not the polygon-masher the 4870 is, but it'll cope with any of today's games.
Regardless, I'm an NVIDIA fanboy and would say to go with at least the GTS 240... Although there are a lot of video cards which give much better performance and are very reasonable in price (*cough* the GTS 250, which is based off of the N92 chipset - ever hear of an 8800GT/9800GT? *cough*).
It depends which NVIDIA card.  NVIDIA does not make their own chipsets, but license them to third parties to manufacture.  ATI does the same, but they also make their own.