A simple fix for that is to check for vertical collision only, correct that, then check again for horizontal collision.  Unless you're falling and trying to slide down a wall, in which case you want to check for horizontal collisions first.  How do you know when to check which first?  You could do it based on which component of your velocity is larger (if horizontal movement is greater, check vertical collisions first, otherwise check horizontal collisions).
What can be even simpler - and more performant - is to instead generate a list of edges for your world.  That is, for your boxes making up the floor, set a flag indicating that only their top edge is actually collidable, and then ignore collisions with the other edges.  You will not be able to use SFML's collision routine for that, but honestly simply box collisions is possibly the easiest bit of code you'll ever write in a game.  This technique works particularly well if your world is aligned to a grid.  I would check out the excellent Metanet tutorials (http://www.metanetsoftware.com/technique.html/) for that technique.
Your image illustrates one of the many problems with trying to use convex shapes - particularly rectangles - to simulate a flat surface like a floor.  The algorithm leads to characters getting stuck on inner edges of the shapes making up the floor.
Maybe a simple solution would be to check for collisions with every rectangle and move back, in the opposite direction of movement, until no collisions are detected. If that solves the problem, the implementation should be quite simple too.
You're going to run into many others problems trying to build a simple 2D platformer game like you are.  By far, the best resource I've seen latel for that is the following one, which you should read, and then read again:
I don't think having 2 collisions calculated is a problem, only a performance issue. In order for the collision to be handled correctly it may have to be tested twice. Using your diagram think if A is tested against B first, then it will need to be tested against the other boxes as well, and may well collide with another.