As for filesystem: have you looked at OpenAFS? The one nice feature it has is disconnected operation.
You may be interested in the Backblaze Pod if you have a big storage requirements, or a similar solution (RAID cards + multiplier backplates in custom case)
So I just have 4 copies of everything on external hard drives.  One drive stays at home, one small one goes with me, one stays at an office, the last one moves around.  I use SecondCopy to back up the files from my laptop to the external drives and I do a backup to at least one of the external drives any time I change more than a couple files.  Hard drives are cheap enough that when I need bigger ones, it won't cost much, and I'll put aside at least a couple of the 320s to keep forever.
Because this is for a home environment you might want to look at getting a Drobo FS.  They would support everything you want to do and pro photographers swear by them.  And if you have the money you can purchase a second Drobo FS and they will automatically mirror (I have never set this up but I have heard of people who have).
This seems needlessly over complex and hard to manage for a home solution, why not just pickup a second hand baby NetApp with dual controllers from eBay or an auction? Loads of resilience plus almost infinite snapshotting.
For myself, every file I've ever created (going back 20 years, although the old old ones are really small), most of my wife's files (most because she's switched PCs a few times and there are a few odds and ends on older hard drives), every picture we've taken or scanned, and most of our family videos (not the raw files straight from the camera, but lots of "the best" clips) all fit on a 320GB hard disk.  It'll take at least 3 years before I get to 500GB.
I'm seriously considering (since my laptop hard drive is almost full) getting rid of the "master" copy of all my stuff that's on my laptop and just treating two of the hard drives as my carry-around storage, and the other two as stationary backups.