For our servers that we have this kind of scenario on rather than totally restricting the folders, the permissions (for the server admins) are set the same as other, equivalent servers, so that the admins can still get their job done when needed. What we do is audit and log everything that happens on that server, and make that log available to the users/person responsible for the data.
If you don't trust the administrators you're out of options - there's always a way for them to get to the data in the described scenarios as they control your hardware (client and/or server) and your infrastructure.
I was going to say that for your second case, if the files on the share are encrypted it would be hard for the admins to get access.  But even then, they could just install a keylogger to find the password.  So Oskar's answer stands: policy is the only option.
Need to modify files in one of the data directories? Do you really? Can you justify it to the data-owner? Fine then go ahead and make the changes.
Of course auditing and logging is only really effective if there's accountability and identifiability. You need to ban the use of all generic admin accounts and have issued each admin with a personalised account with the relevant permissions needed for their job to them (something like Admin_BloggJ or John.Doe.Admin).
We use a piece of software called LT Auditor to create the audit logs, and have it set to print out the reports daily. We have users that pore through that religiously and take glee in spotting any unusual access and reporting it. This is a big deterrent!
Admin's need access to data. Even if for nothing else than backup and restore. What you need to do is trust your admins a certain amount, and make the consequences for abusing that trust high and definite. As an admin you have a lot of power and access, your trustworthiness is one of your job's requirements, gross misconduct/suspension/dismissal type charges are wholly justified for abusing the trust placed in you.
There's an emergency that means that you need to get on the server and make changes at 2am? No problem you have the necessary access, just realise that your actions will be scrutinised in the morning.
Need to go on that server's console? Do you really? Can you justify it to the data-owner? Fine then go one there.