Another possible cause of latency is wireless transmissions, almost every form of multi-access wireless will place a large toll on latency whether it be normal home wireless or mobile wireless as the wireless card must wait till everyone has finished transmitting data before it can send its own data. The more users transmitting on a wireless system, the slower the speed AND latency (again not by much, mainly caused by waiting till its clear to send)
The only real solution for improving your latency is to shorten the number of hops in between the two hosts in question. 
It doesn't matter if you have a 1gbit/s connection if it's saturated. TCP (and other protocols) rely on transmission checks wich in 99% of cases are not prioritized correctly with QoS or similar technologies.
Symmetrical (SDSL, fibre etc) lines are generally better suited for low-latency operations, as they do not share RX with TX (wich means that TCP ACK's, ICMP replies etc won't get hindered if you are downloading at full blaze). It still requires QoS to guarantee traffic for sensitive applications (VoIP in particular).
Higher bandwidth will not help much, unless bulk data is drowning out interactive data. If both sides used fibre instead of xDSL/Cable/Wireless, that might you shave 20-80ms on your RTT.
The theoretical minimum time a packet of data takes to travel the entire world is around 70ms, that's when the packet is traveling at the speed of light.
If you are a big-enough corporate customer, you should be able to open a dialogue with your telecommunications providers on both ends about taking a shorter (possibly costlier) IP route between the two sites. 
Run a traceroute, or better yet, mtr (mytraceroute).  If you're on Windows, you can use winmtr.  PingPlotter is also a good tool for this.  
Find where your high latency starts, then work to fix it.  Throwing more bandwidth at your problem isn't the answer.
Ask around and find out if other people on faster connections and other ISP's are experiencing the same latency, its fully possible its caused by the ISP or the connection but its very unlikely.
Surprisingly, the number of hits (and quality of hits) on google when it comes to prioritizing TCP ACK's are quite thin.. talk to any networking expert, and they'll know why you need this.
Do a ping test using pingtest.net to determine the quality of each link. Latency is important, but /jitter/ can make a huge difference as well. I would much rather have a slower (3 Mbps) connection without jitter then a faster (eg 15 Mbps) connection with jitter.
The number one factor is the time a packet of data will spend being sorted at routers and other WAN infrastructure.
You can also look at using a TCP accelerator; there are commercial ones but pepsal can make a difference already.
A higher bandwidth will mean that the packet will take less time to completely download before another packet can transmit data and the time the entire packet takes to download is a factor here as well but in reality that's only going to add 10-20ms in the worst cases.
There are many different answers to this question, and the correct answer (in my opinion) is "It depends".
You have done a lot of positing without gathering facts.  Your best bet is to try to identify the source of high latency:  where does it start?  Then you can try to answer the question of:  how do I fix it?