Cons - generally lower performance from a user standpoint, often tied into one vendor's systems (i.e Windows).
Cons - If server is down, users suffers. Hangs up the entire server when any of user on server is using high server resource thus effect other users. Have to continuously monitor the services. Takes a good amount of network space if thin-server is accessed among other servers.
For Printers- If once accessed with admin control, it then allows other users to access the required printer. 
Pros - It works like centralized server. Easily manageable, for eg: if you need to update anti-virus, you can easily update it at one location with admin control, and it will effect other users. Effective admin Control, can easily monitor users, you can know which user is taking more resource according to which you can manage the services.
Where I work now, we use TS for some simple applications that are only rarely used by everybody. Or for testing (we have access to old versions of Windows / IE).
On the cost side, the equation is not as straightforward as it might seem. You still have to pay licences for the clients, and even if you now only have one server to manage and not a bunch of workstations, the job is more difficult and require more qualifications...
One advantaged others have not mentioned so far is that having a Terminal Server environment makes it pretty easy to setup remote access.  Particularly with the Windows 2008 Remote Desktop Gateway.  Setting up users to be able to work from home or a remote location is pretty easy.
There's nothing you can benefit from with a TS system that can't be acheieved by good sysadmins in a non-TS environment but it can be easier for a less skilled/experienced sysadmins to manage a TS system.
I do know a few companies which have vitrualized all workstations, but it seems to work much better when you have simple requirements.
Pros - tight control of the environment, generally easier to have good security, system consistency for users, generally easier to do code updates.