From your question and subsequent comments it sounds like you're not getting interviews.  If you're not getting interviews then you definitely need to work on that resume.  It's hard work but you should tailor your resumes for the positions listed, also bring in experiences you may have that aren't strictly technology related.  As an example, a network services company looking for an engineer to service their clients might find sales or personal soft skills important.  You need to emphasize your strong points and get the interview.
When I got out of school I wasn't even a comp sci major.  What helped me was creating a blog with solutions to various issues, projects, and scripts.  I think this can help a lot if you write thorough articles.  A blog that just links to other sites probably won't get you anywhere. I did get feedback from the jobs I got saying the blog was a major factor in their choice.  It won't always help because employers may not bother, but some will.  You can mention it in your cover 'letter'.  
I've sat on the other side of the interview desk a few times in the last year, and all I can say is stuff you do in you're spare time counts as experience. If the first time you did a linux install was for a class 6 years ago, you have 6 years of linux experience. 
Other stuff I look for is drive. Get a couple crappy machines, and set them up and run them like a production environment. Know how to patch a server with minimal interuptions, or what config changes can break everything. And then during the interview, you have something really valuable to hit during you're interview, use any chance to bring up that you've operated a platform like the company you're working for, and had to write a script to alert you to low disk space, whatever it is it helps, and to me that counts as experience.
I don't put too much faith in certifications as having actually used the equipment, but it definitly won't hurt. We do alot of networking/unix/databases in our shop, so stuff like CCNA, solaris, oracle courses are helpfull. However, I would only look at this to know you're on the same page, and that when someone says layer 3 / layer 4 networking, you understand what they mean. I would easily substitute this for working knowledge.
Use the helpdesk position to get a feel for the company's systems and policies - go above & beyond "just doing the job", offer to help out the sysadmin group in exchange for training when you have spare time during the work day or in the evenings.  See if you can take responsibility for some of the sysadmin group's basic daily tasks.  (Swapping backup tapes, reviewing logs, etc)
My recommendation would be to look for a higher level / more technical help desk position and clearly state you're looking to move up to a Jr. Admin position.  If you already have a technical helpdesk position, talk to your supervisor & the sysadmin supervisor and let them know you're interested in becoming an admin.
With this you can show a skill set more than you can with your resume.  Lastly, its not true work experience, so don't try pass it off as that.  But it can show that you know things, and that you are highly motivated.
Switching hats for a minute here, if you're not getting interviews you need to focus on that resume.  I've seen and talked to very motivated, talented people whose resumes told their stories terribly.  Take the time to learn about good resume writing or work with someone to make this piece of paper something that doesn't get pitched. 
For an entry level admin position, most companies will be looking for someone with at least a few years experience, as you've noticed...  
If your experiences seem weak, have you thought about volunteering IT services at a non-profit organization?  If you have something that shows you are working on technology in a "production" environment may help.
Take every opportunity to learn from them, and there's a very good chance you'll be considered for the next opening.  After a couple years, if it doesn't look like you'll have the opportunity to move up, ask your current employer if they'd be willing to recommend you for a jr. admin position elsewhere.  On your resume, highlight the work you did with the sysadmin group and the training you received.  If you can show you've done the work, but just didn't have the title, you'll have a much better chance of being considered.
Now, the other thing is I don't work in pure IT, but we're a telecommunications company, so we can't find experienced people to begin with (some of our platforms have as few as 5 people to run and manage a national network in Canada, but handle more than 4 million unique users per day). So we have to look for that drive, that willingness to understand, and nothing helps more than to be somewhat geeky, and demonstrate that in the interview process that you are deeply intrigued and motivated on the platforms you would be working on.