I like to take advice from security experts, one such security expert is Steve Gibson who's proven to be a reliable source of security information through a long standing security based podcast Security Now and his career as a software developer for his own company GRC.
Since I tested the pre-beta build, it is quite difficult to draw the final verdict. But one thing that held out is it’s ease-of-use and small memory footprint. The overall size of the software installer is only 4.8MB and takes around 6.6MB + 36MB(runs two different processes) when running on my system. Which is quite impressive if you look at the fact that it detected and removed a Trojan downloader that NOD32 even failed to detect in the first place.
However, I upgraded my pc a few months ago and I have not been using any AV (I have Windows 7, UAC on maxmium, and I never install programs that I do not know / used in the past), and generally been very happy. However, If you must have an AV solution, I would seriously consider this if you do not need central management / enterprise AV.
Anti-virus/malware software has to have a pretty intimate relationship with the operating system in order to function effectively.  Who better to create that relationship than the creators of the OS?  And, it's free to boot.  I would think that, if you're going to use AV software, this is the one to go with.
No packaged product is ‘adequate’ protection for a PC, really; today's anti-malware products will not protect you from the mass of ever-evolving malware out there today. It's much more about ensuring your net-facing software is up-to-date, reducing attack surface by removing net-facing software (like plugins) that you don't need, and not falling for social engineering attacks (like the fake codecs and scanners).
A quick bing search of the Security Now podcast transcripts lists several episodes of Steve discussing Microsoft Security Essentials and recommending its use.
Being a listener of the podcast Steve has often recommended Microsoft Security Essential as a good anti-virus solution and uses it himself.
I installed Microsoft Security Essentials Beta and it worked brilliantly a while ago, very low memory footprint, small size e.t.c.... I have become less impressed with Nod32 recently (they are going down the Symantec trap - money in advertising and not product development), Anyway, I thought it was fast and did the job.
It's as effective as any other anti-virus product. Which is to say, not very. On the plus side, it's not in your face all the time like some of the others.