However, it sounds like you want management, not just imaging/deploying? In that case, you need (default obvious answer, there are, of course, other solutions, but they all will cost money too AFAIK) at least one box running Windows Server of some flavor. (I'd recommend at least 2003R2). Don't be put off by where this is posted (it left me scratching my head as well), but the post/info I wish I had had when I started this gig 4 years ago is at http://forums.somethingawful.com/showthread.php?threadid=2955619
You're best bet if you don't want to spend money is an unattended install. MSFN has a fantastic Unattended Guide that is the authoritative guide for doing this. Ghost makes things easier, but you can use a BartPE disk, fileshare and dd to lay down the unattended Windows install.
We've used Ghost to multicast installs of up to 50 workstations at a time with great success. We're transitioning to a fully automated, one-touch install with vPro and SCCM which should be really interesting.
I prefer installing software separately with ADSI/scripts/SCCM, because otherwise images get out of date really quickly.
Forget about the Windows Deployment Services/RIS stuff. If you're not licensing Windows organizationally, it's unlikely that you have lots of consistency in your gear. PXE booting will waste alot of your time and not solve any of your issues.
You can use Windows Deployment Services (the new RIS) if you have a 2003/2008 server. This provides PXE boot capabilies for your XP clients. You configure a 'template' on the server to answer the setup questions, but you will be prompted for anything you didn't enter (Windows Key in your case). Don't miss the intro video.
Figuring out sysprep for XP from scratch is nearly impossible. That is, until you find a guide that actually explains things rather than just "insert line 'foo.bat' in 'jabberwocky.ini'"...that guide is located at http://vernalex.com/guides/sysprep/index.shtml - There's still a few outlier items, but that will answer 99% of everything. (Things change dramatically w/ Vista/Win7)
If you don't have a ton of machines, buy the SMB version of Microsoft SCCM. It's easy to use, powerful and will allow you to do work once and not repeat it. You'll even be able to delegate reimaging to clerks and other non-technical types if desired.
After a few years of RIS/WDS, i've become to really like Vista + WDS. No sysprep required, i've created general image (basically factory WIM + drivers + patches) with drivers what deploys to all the hardware in infrastructure. It's all unattended and has been working for about a year. Roaming profiles and folder redirection take care of the rest.
The SMB version of Microsoft SCCM is fine if you don't have a lot of machines and I agree but there are other Windows software deployment options which might as well be just as good or even better at handling a multitude of machines simultaneously say 300 workstations maybe more. It could be a considerable investment for your organization but if the ratio of machines versus the IT staff is huge then the benefits outweigh the cost.
RIS + XP wasn't that bad either, but WDS is better for Vista. I inserted necessary drivers with nLite and unattended the install image without using sysprep. It usually worked just fine.