Failing that, you'll need to turn on DHCP on the WGT624 and let it assign addresses within its own range to devices which connect to it wirelessly; you'll also need to configure its DHCP address assignment range not to overlap that of your PC that's doing Internet Connection Sharing, or you'll get IP address conflicts. This is less than ideal, as devices connected to the WGT624 will have trouble communicating with those on the wired network, but it will allow more than one wireless device to connect simultaneously via the WGT624.
If I turn off wifi on the phone and then turn on wifi on an android tablet, it gets allocated address 77.
If I turn off wifi on the tablet and then turn it on again, it always gets address 77, and the S4 phone won't connect. 
We have a Netgear WGT624 set up as an access point to provide wireless access on our wired network. The wired network has one PC acting as a DHCP server and internet gateway - the WGT624 is set up with a fixed IP and DHCP turned off, and is connected to one port of the wired network's switch. It all works OK except that it won't hand out more than 1 IP address to wireless devices. If a second one comes along is just sits there trying to get an IP address. If we turn off the connected device, the other one connects straight away.
Of course, what would really be ideal would be to use the WGT624 as your gateway router, the role for which it is intended, and demote the XP box to a mere client; ICS can be made to work, but it's flaky, relatively slow, and a pain to administer. Is there some reason you can't do that instead of dealing with all this other nonsense?
The S4 works fine. If I try to connect from any other wireless device I can't. The gateway is using the Win XP internet connection sharing.
The Netgear WGT624 is a wireless router, not just an access point, so what you have right now is in effect a second network segment, routed by the WGT624, which is configured to use your actual network the same way it would, for example, a cable modem.
So it appears as if this might be a workaround, but I would rather DHCP was working than having to set up anybody who visits with a static IP address.
What I tried next was setting the wireless devices to all get static IP addresses 100, 101 and 102. All 3 devices (2x S4, one Sony tablet S) connect OK and seem to work.
What you need to do, if possible, is configure the WGT624 to act as a wireless bridge, which will make it transparent; DHCP traffic will pass through from the main network, and your devices connected wirelessly to the WGT624 will be properly assigned DHCP addresses and otherwise be able to behave as any other device on the network. Unfortunately, most routers don't offer a bridge mode option, so you're probably out of luck there.