Here is some more info on the benefits. Although its written about windows, the principle is the same.
A separate /boot partition allows me to boot and repair my root file system, even if the root file system is corrupt. If I put all the boot files in the root file system, and it gets corrupted, it might not boot at all. There is also more flexibility. Later, I can put a second disk in, put swap on that, and delete the swap partition from the root disk and expand the root filesystem into that space.
Having /var and /tmp on separate partitions are also generally considered good ideas; that way, if a log file (for example; any temporary file) spins out of control, it will be stopped before filling the entire disk.
Keeping the home directories on a separate partition prevents the users from accidentally filling up the root partition. This is good because if you fill up the root partition, you end up with problems (system logs, for instance, are often in the root partition).
While it's not actually possible for non-root users to use the last bits of space on a disk (the system won't let them), it is possible for them to fill it up most of the way, and then for automated system processes to finish the job, making it annoying to get everything back into operation.
Creating a hard swap partition instead of one in the filesystem, is just UNIX-style sysadmin. There's no real reason not to make it just a file in the filesystem, except that some user will come alone with sudo powers and try to rm it.
As Babu and Mike said, a separate /home allows me to update or change distros without losing all my data.
Linux generally sees the disk very differently than a Windows machine. Also Windows Fat32/NTFS and even newer file systems are mostly a Windows strictly format. So you don't actually know what they do or how they behave internally. Linux uses its own file systems ext3/4 being the most widely used, the Linux file system doesn't exist in a tree like state nor does it treat data like a second class citizen residing on your disk. The reason you can create single or multiple partitions for the os is both for organization and disk speed access. Though this last part has changed over the years, most Linux users don't bother with multiple partitions because you need to slice your os data to fit evenly over the partitions you manually create. I personally find it counter intuitive to have multiple partitions. On the other hand Linux machines don't generally suffer from bad disk sectors or having an auto feature for defrag. This is just bad design by Microsoft, can't fix their internal issues so they build tools that allow you to fix your own problem 60% of the time anyway.
I typically create one for root, one for swap, and one for home. The advantage of this is that it allows you to leave your documents (also music, video, pictures, etc) untouched if you need to reinstall the OS. Because you can completely over write the OS partition (root) without touching the home partition, your files are safe and there is no need to perform the time consuming process of transferring them to another media and then back to your fresh machine. It makes reformatting/imaging much more elegant