For years I've been using ntop and a cheap 4 port hub to sniff client networks to determine who's doing what -- and how much. Great way to see what's going on when they call and say "Geeze, the network seems really slow today." No need to bring in a managed switch (or access the existing one) and no need to configure spanning or mirroring. I just drop in the hub inline where I want to measure.  
Lately I noticed it is just about impossible to buy a real honest-to-goodness hub anymore. While looking for a new one, I had someone tell me that I should be sure to get a full-duplex hub or I'd only be seeing half the traffic when I monitor.
Side note: Just ordered a Dualcomm Ethernet Switch TAP as a hub replacement. Seems like a nifty gadget. Any notes or tips about it would be welcome in the comments :-)
The advantage of using this method is that it doesn't require an additional power-brick for the switch/hub, it's all self-contained in the laptop. You can even add an address to the bridge if you need to.
Dual ports can be found many ways. USB NICs, or use that never-used ExpressCard slot on some laptops to add a second GigE NIC (example device at NewEgg). 
The ease of doing this is one reason some networks deploy port-level security. Register a specific MAC address for a specific Ethernet jack, and it's a lot harder to do this sort of inline packet capture. Not impossible, just harder. 
I've been using a crusty old Netgear DS104 all this time. No clue if it is half or FD. Have I really been understating my measurements? I'm just not bright enough about the physical layer to really know...
Depending on what you're comfortable with, a portable solution is to build your own network bridge. Any laptop with two interfaces can be made to do it. Plug the wire from the wall into one interface, and a second wire into the device that's reporting the problem and run your sniffs on the bridge. 
The same can be done on Windows through Internet Connection Sharing and other means, but I don't know what they are off the top of my head. 