Don't force yourself to do stuff that will demotivate you - whatever it is. Motivation is the only thing that will make you finish your game and finishing the game will be the most important thing for you to accomplish. Do not squander motivation on graphics if it is not your thing, but realize that a nice looking UI will motivate you.
Programming was the easy part, while generating synthezised sound effects and drawing pixel art consumed most of my time. Thanks God for public domain music which in this case perfectly suited the whole groove of the thing.
The really important thing is to finish the game. It doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't have to have every feature you planned out. But once you finish a limited version of the game, no matter how many features it's missing and no matter how crap the art and sound is, then you have a basis for making changes and improvements, and you have something to show clients or potential employers as a code demonstration.
It depends on what kind of game developer career you are seeking. Most titles created in the modern game industry are made by huge teams where a programmer doesn't ever have to draw a single pixel.
First, I disagree that gameplay is the only important thing in a game. Visuals sell, and you will most likely have your game played by other people if you show a pretty screenshot that catches their eye. Because of this, I do not recommend you disregard art, or use stock or placeholder art for your game. This also goes for sound and story (if your game has one).
If you grew up in the 80's when you could actually see pixels on the screen (and then never being able to ever ignore them later) it could just grow naturally on you, but if that's not the case, I'd recommend reading a bit on pixel art creation. Of course you can always digitalize some paper drawing and just do the finishing later.
Though if you're more into developing your own indie game, you could assume the "one man army" role, in which you'll have to deal with graphics and sound creation. Take a look at my own title, for instance:
Let me tell you that you are in a very privileged position, being a programmer. There are lots of people in the world who love games and would want to make one for themselves, but only very few know how to code. Even though it is technically possible to one-man-army a game project being a programmer, it is simply impossible being an artist. You would be surprised to know that for every "how do I make a game if I'm a programmer and not an artist?" question, there are a dozen "how do I make a game if I'm an artist and not a programmer?" questions.
Second, I wouldn't recommend you work on a project alone. Having more people in your project is a great way to stay motivated, and also by sharing ideas with other members you are more likely to get a better game.
So what you have to do is gather people who are interested in making a game, and making a project with them. It sounds hard, but it is actually very easy, if you approach the problem from the right angle. I've done several indie games with other people, and I've had really good experiences doing so.
Keep in mind both of these options are viable only if you're serious about making games. If you stop halfway, or if they sense you're not being serious, you will lose reputation, and people won't join you in subsequent projects, so proceed only if you're actually capable, and willing to walk the walk.
With all that in mind, I really hope you overcome your obstacles and have a great time creating your own game. It's an incredibly fun and rewarding experience once it's up and running. :)
I don't think the fact you are not an artist is that much of a downer, programmer are essential to make a game, and if you don't have content, it's not really a problem:
Ultimately, you must fall in love with your creation. You need a good deal of motivation and a genuine desire to make your game see the light. You must become the #1 fan of your own game, because if you don't like playing it at all, who else will?
Get at least decent looking placeholder for your graphics. Then figure out how to get a better version, if you reach the point when you are ready to release, etc..
In my opinion, there are two ways to solve this problem. I've done both, and I can assure you both work.
It wasn't specified if you want to do a game professionally or as a hobby. For a professional game, you need professional graphics. Minecraft is a great counter example, but an exception to the rule. As a programmer making games for a living, I get the graphics from a paid artist and from online websites that sells 3d models, images and sound.
For a hobby, there are free online resources as well as doing your own art. However, if you are anything like me, my art sucks, takes too long to do and I don't like the end result of the game. That means I lose my mojo doing stuff I don't like vs stuff I do like and I am not motivated by my results... which means: I get it from good sources. 
It can be an excellent 3D shooting game even if the walls are all brown and the characters are cubic block people.
 - Do the game without content, and try to find artists after the game has more features: you will have more leverage, and you will have much less pressure to add those features.
Anyway, creating games has always been a multidisciplinary craft. You'll need a good depth of programming skills (but not 'too much', or you'll end being unable to create the simplest game, because you'll be over-worried about abstractions, just like a good grammatician can't write a single book), good understanding of math, geometry, physics and also a good deal of artistic skills, like drawing, sound creation, level design, story telling, etc.
The sound effects are easy to make. Just record yourself making the sounds with your mouth. I've played some really fun tower defense games where it's quite obvious the shooting sound is a guy going, "Pew! Pew!" into a microphone. :-)
You can always replace your sounds and art later on. In my opinion the important thing is the game itself.
So, people are there. There's a lot of artists and musicians and game designers who want to make games, and would do them for free. Unfortunately, pretty much everyone who is able to competently participate in the development of a game will most likely not be interested in joining your game, so that's the problem you want to attack if you want to successfully make indie games.