I wouldn't really call it a "con" but, having 3 teams in an FPS makes less impact than for example in a RTS game.
With the stronger teams ganging up on the weaker teams, those members will get upset quickly and try to switch teams or just leave the game, until only two teams were left.
When playing a RTS game, you have to think of strategies, how to take advantage of situations, capture lands, and diminish your enemies. Knowing who is your enemy's enemy can have a massive advantage, which you can use to win.
To sum it up, the only con I would give it is that it's not worth spending time on a mechanic like that, as the final game won't be that different that a 2-team one.
That's why you don't see a lot of 3-player games. It's either single-player, dueling, or free-for-all/Battle Royal.
The maps were highly symmetrical, just like RTS maps. The game experience was something between a free-for-all and a team game, except with a major problem: pile on.
Two: So, there is more than one human opponent. Why stop at 2? Why not allow 3 or 4? Or 20 human opponents? 1v1 has a specific flavor to it, where you're in a duel with a single opponent/team. But 1v1v1 is not all that different from 1v1v1v1. Which is why RTS games that allow more than one opponent typically have a large limit (and the limit is only there for resource/map-size reasons).
Such games did exist; a few custom Starsiege (mech sim game) maps were 3- or 4- team deathmatch or capture-the-flag modes. Before the dominance of DotA, there were a few wacky multi-team MOBA maps.
One: This is a 1v1 game. The player is focused on a single, specific human opponent, much like any number of 1v1 real-life games.
Note that the above reasoning assumes that each player/team is playing the same game. That is, they're all operating under basically the same rules of play and using the same gameplay mechanics. Having a third player act in a 1v1 game with different abilities from the other two sides is a different concept, with a very different feel from merely 1v1v1. Like, if you have two teams that are hunting down a third player, but that third player is a super-powered player. You score points by attacks to the third player, but you also can attack the other team to prevent them from attacking the third player.
I see this as less a matter of Pros v Cons as an application of the Zero/One/Infinity rule. The ZOI rule states that you can justify forbidding something, or limiting the something to 1. But once you start going above 1, whatever reasoning you used to justify 2 could be used to justify 3 or 4 or 5. And whatever reasoning you used to justify limiting it to 4 could be used for 3 or 2 or 1.
This also isn't a problem in other genres (RTS, tabletop games) because players can't freely change teams or leave mid-game.
In a FPS game, at least the ones I've played, it's more like "Run around and kill whoever is not in your team". Obviously there is room for strategy, but you can't really take advantage of knowing your enemy's enemy, not to mention that in most cases you win if you kill someone, not if someone loses, which is not the case on a RTS game.
In creating a video game concept, there are very little video games that offer a 3 team multiplayer FPS (think like Overwatch/Call of Duty but with 3 teams instead of 2). The only 'mainstream' games that offer this are RTS games.