But like they say for anything, if you do not have the skills for a particular role, get someone in to help. I wouldn't expect a developer to have the full skills of a designer and vice versa, so perhaps ask a developer friend for help?
If you are soon to be under the scrutiny of a security auditor for a web application (I assume application, rather than flat html due to the ability to load user data)... and you do not have the basic knowledge of SSL, then unfortunately you are likely to fail the audit.
Instead of sending information between the server and browser in a form that can be intercepted easily and read by a third party. The data is sent in an encrypted format to help mitigate someone snooping on the traffic.
Be aware that this redirect is transmitted through the plain HTTP connection and your users are only immune to some specific attacks if they actively enter the https URL into the browser.
Typically no, as the server will allow both http traffic and https. But this can be controlled at the server level. This could be achieved at the server level if you have enough control (I won't go into detail here), but it would require you to have more access than you would normally have on a shared server (unless by shared, you mean a virtual server?).
Also in many browsers you will get warnings if your site is loading things like images via http. As the browser will complain about the mix of https and http.
Does "SSL secures data between the users web browser and your server, by encrypting it" answer your question?
Sorry I do not mean to jump to conclusions, as you could pass... I do not know the specific requirements of your security audit. But talking from experiance with working with security auditors - SSL is only the begining.
Can someone explain to me in short (and in 'human' terms) what happens when an SSL certificate is installed?
As for your last bullet, it's common practice to redirect requests that arrive at the unencrypted site to the encrypted site, like in this example that could be found in an Apache httpd configuration: