You haven't written what kind of game it is and why do you want players to play with multiple characters, so I could only speculate. 
Games like Diablo or Diablo II had me do this because of the random generation, the possibility of finding new weapons or armor on different plays.  Diablo kind of left you with a sense of something being unexplored in those other games you started but didn't progress in, which is I guess what made me go back and play those lower level characters further.
This might sound like heresy in today's entitlement world but consider a gameplay system where leveling up a character also introduces penalties (an aging mechanic perhaps or something else). This will enable players to grow in some areas but at the same time lose power in others. 
SWTOR has a legacy system which i love. You could somehow make new skills if items in the game available to all char's. So that way players will want those skills or items so they will try and keep all their "classes" leveling at the same rate to unlock the skills for example: when you have a lvl 10 "soldier" and Level 10 "medic" all characters can use the stimpack during a battle. and then have a super large ladder like that. You could have powers that required X levels chars in all classes.
Games like Final Fantasy 6, did not have me do this (I had a single "important" save game with very high level characters) because the play through was pretty much the same, and the variability in play due to item drops was kind of minimal (barring that time I got 2x Minerva armor from defeating Pugs in a treasure chest! And of course what you can get in the Colloseum, but that is very late in the game).
It might create interesting dynamics where a low level character might be better at some stuff than a higher level one
Example B: inspired by Diablo and the team play abilities. You could provide missions, where the player could play with all his characters. There's the rule 'non Hercules contra plures', so 10 low level characters would be more powerful than single high level one. Add the requirements for battle leaders, which would have to have higher level, and you'll result in optimal strategies for having a few high levels, a bunch of middle level and a lot of low level ones.
Example A: inspired by Arena Albionu and Vallheru. Characters can be trained in multiple jobs, so that they can produce multiple resources. The final resources are weapons and potions. The energy is limited, so you need many characters to suppor powerfull warrior.
What are the acceptable interactions between multiple characters of one players? It gives more possibilities than simply create multiple classes. 