also, note that i've posted this information multiple times on intel boards and they keep deleting my posts - intel absolutely refuses to acknowledge that their Proset bloatware for the 8260 is utter garbage  and is wrecking havoc with users stuck with the 8260.
Next, manually delete the two intel wifi driver files from Windows/system32/drivers, namely netwfw02.sys and netwfw02.dat OR netwfw04.sys and netwfw04.dat (or perhaps both or even some other number besides 02 or 04). This is an important step, because uninstalling intel driver software lately does not always actually delete the old driver files, and I've had replacement intel driver installs silently fail because they were unable to delete and/or replace existing driver files, leaving a total mess.
Now go back to the unzipped barebones wifi drivers folder and execute DPInst64.exe (DPInst32.exe for 32-bit systems) followed by executing iprodifx.exe.
My interim solution so far has been deleting the WiFi profile from Settings> WiFi> Manage Known Networks and re-entering the password after clicking Settings> WiFi> Show Available Networks and then everything works fine but its a hit or miss most of the time. 
As you can see, I'm using Intel(R) Dual Band Wireless-AC 8260 with driver update 19.40.0.3 . I don't know when this problem started because I'm mostly on wired connection but its has been a few weeks since I noticed this problem.
i never could get the intel dual band wireless-ac 8260 chipset to work reliably in several new (VERY expensive) Panasonic CF-54 laptops. my experience has lead me to believe the problem is the massive Proset bloatware, not the barebones drivers or the chipset.
https://downloadcenter.intel.com/downloads/eula/27206/Intel-PROSet-Wireless-Software-and-Drivers-for-IT-Admins?httpDown=https%3A%2F%2Fdownloadmirror.intel.com%2F27206%2Fa08%2FWiFi_20.0.2_Driver64_Win7.zip
The problem is that my WiFi connection abruptly disconnects from the Internet on my Laptop, while other devices on the same WiFi run quite fine. It does not disconnect from the WiFi, the WiFi icon in the tray just shows an exclamation mark indicating that the internet connection is lost while WiFi is connected. At this state I cannot even access my Router from my device.
(The worse case i've encountered is that after uninstalling the intel HD Graphics 520 display drivers, over 200 driver files are left behind that HAVE to be manually deleted AFTER uninstalling, because if they are not manually deleted, the new driver bundle will absolutely NOT install correctly leaving things like graphics acceleration completely broken.)
Go to Programs and Features in Control Panel and Uninstall the installed Intel Proset/Wirless software. Remove everything, including "settings".
I spent days (weeks really) trying everything I could think of and many suggestions from intel and the internet as well. nothing worked. the chipset was balky in connecting if it would connect at all, and when it did connect, it was almost always REALLY, REALLY, REALLY slow and frequently disconnected! And this was the case with multiple different routers, both old and new.
And that should be it. Windows should popup a balloon from the taskbar telling you that a new wifi device has been installed and you should be good to go. Not only should the intel wifi now function flawlessly, but you've also eliminated a massive amount of unnecessary bloatware, including several background processes that run at all times, consuming both CPU and memory.
In complete despair, I finally decided to completely nuke the MASSIVE (and as far as I could tell, nearly useless) bloatware known as Intel Proset/Wireless and instead just install the basic Intel WiFi drivers and let Microsoft manage the WiFi (which Microsoft has almost always done flawlessly since Vista SP1) and see if that might fix the problem. It did fix the problem!
Has anyone faced this particular problem? Is it a driver issue? I'm lost. Any speculations on where the problem lies? Can anyone resolve this situation?