Open a new document in word 2016. Go to Design ribbon and on the right click PAGE COLOR in Page background section (the most right in my case). Choose a black color. Then type some text. Now try to print. In my case on the screen I have a black background and white text, but on the paper I've got it inverted, just normal black text on white paper!!!!!!! All works just fine.
It's a not-so-pretty but fast option for many programs that don't supply darkmodes themselves, but sometimes control elements turn invisible because of it.
I create my text documents on Google Drive first (that could be any online resource) while using the Hacker Vision extension which inverts the screen colors to protect your eyesight.
Or, as is quite common, you could use a wiki system to write your documentation, which would also give you all the features of a wiki (versioning, linking, searching, tagging etc.).
Not only is it a standard and easily viewed, but you can actually define different stylesheet for screen and printer.
The only thing left is to figure it out how to make it default. Cause currently if you create a new document, it still opens with white background.
Keep your document settings for onscreen viewing as you have chosen (black background, “automatic” text color). In Word 2010, go to the File tab; select Options; select Display; go to Printing options and UNCHECK the box that says “Print background colors and images.” This will PRINT your document with black text on a white background.
If you run win 10 and office 2016, you might need latest updates installed. For me it started working in nov. 2018.
I would choose the high-contrast mode over the color-filter because it changes background- and font-color somewhat more intelligent, IMHO.
In Word 2019 it seems to work fine so far, and printed pages are, similar to the color-filter solution, still white with black text.
Now all goes smooth. I hunted this thing (black background) for many, many years and, finally  got this. Try this out.