I finally understood after having "Access denied" error messages. Although I was the owner of the My Videos folder, it could not be removed because, in fact, due to the JUNCTION, it was not really empty. With the /S option, it got erased cleanly.
Make sure that YOU still have full permissions, and change the permissions of any other groups to "read and execute", "list folder contents", and "read". You may have to apply this recursively, and allow inheritable permissions.
After years of frustrations, I believe that I may have found one solution. Start a terminal with Start: Run: cmd, then move to the folder containing the one to be removed (e.g., My Videos) with CD (e.g., cd c:\users\me), then use RMDIR /S videos. The S option allows to remove all the files contained in a directory as well as the folder itself. These folders are not really folders, but JUNCTIONs (see @RonK answer); with /S, you delete the folder as well as the linked folder (which otherwise is not visible).
In my case, Windows Media Player was not involved because I had removed it a long time ago from my computer.
In Windows 8, there seems to be an easy solution.  I navigated to the c:\users\me\my pictures folder and under the "Home" tab clicked on Properties.  There under the Location tab I entered "D:\Pictures" and hit Apply.  Windows asks if you want to move all the files in My Pictures to the new location, and will do it if you say yes.  When done hit OK and reboot.  Now the c:\users\me\my pictures folder has been replaced by c:\users\me\pictures in the Explorer listing but the actual file location when you click on it is d:\Pictures. QED.  
I have this same frusration, and while I can't delete the folders, I was able to "make them go away" by right-clicking on them, going into "properties" and ticking the "hidden" check box.  Now I simply don't see them anymore!  Since seeing them was really the most annoying part of it, that sorta-kinda solves the issue for me..  Hope this at least helps a bit.  
Why don't you just adjust and point those paths to your custom Media folders? Windows will continue to recreate them. You cannot win unless you nuke your windows and go with a Nix machine. Pointing those library paths to your custom folder will work to your advantage. By those being the first ones to show up, you can quickly select your media folder and not waste precious time or screen space.