If both database instances are on the same server (or have visibility to a common network location), then you can just schedule a daily backup on the first and a daily restore 30 minutes later on the second one (or whatever delay is feasible). This way, it happens automatically.
Replication may be overkill here, since it's designed more for continuous transfer of data than just a working backup copy. Obviously there are periodic replication methods (snapshot), but I still think it's more than you need for what you're trying to do.
Alternatively, do the same scripted backup/restore, but create a test instance if you can't change tha database name.  The test instance could even be on the same physical machine - MyComputer\SQLExpress and MyComputer\SQLExpressTest.
Replication services on publisher's side are not available with SQL Express. This is a licensing issue. Sql Express allows you only to subscribe to an existing publication.
Why not just restore your database with a different name?  For instance, you could have "MyProductionDB" and "MyTestDB".  Then script out the backup and restore, and you need only run the script when you want to "refresh" the test instance (note that there is a "Generate Script" button at the top of the backup and restore dialogs).
I just set up a more complicated process, in case you don't have a common network location. A batch file on the source creates a backup through OSQL, then zips it and uses an FTP script to send it across the internet. Another script on our destination sees the file in the FTP receive folder, extracts it, and then restores it using OSQL, sending an email notification when it's done. Definitely more complicated, but also an option if you need the flexibility.
Instead of replication, you could decide to set a scheduled backup job. As job management is not available in sql express (and I guess you don't want to pay for the full Sql Server license), you can find third party software that will allow you to manage such tasks. I guess you should google for 'sql express job scheduler' or similar request.  