Some operating systems respond to connection requests (in the case of TCP) or unsolicited packets (in the case of UDP) with packets indicating that nothing is listening there. Some operating systems can be configured to drop incoming packets to ports where nothing is listening with no response.
To me, neither behaviour is better than the other. My take on it is simple: Don't run unnecessary programs that listen for incoming connections / packets. The programs you have to run should be configured as securely as possible.
Is it a system providing services on a well-known port to the world? (such as a web server)  Then trying to "stealth" your ports won't do much. good.
Worrying about your box responding to port scans seems, to me, to be missing the point. In my opinion, Steve Gibson (who runs GRC.com) is a little bit nutty. (Is his "nanoprobes" page still up?)  He seems to be fear-mongering in some of his writing.
For client systems a software firewall configured correctly should make your ports "stealth"  I just ran my personal box that is exposed to the internet against Sheilds Up and all my ports are listed as stealth.
Is there a particular reason you want to stealth your ports?  It won't make your computer invisible (as your open ports will still respond to a port scan), makes extra work for you, and breaks the rules of RFC 791 (TCP).  Are you the subject of frequent port scans, or just buying into Steve Gibson's paranoia ;)
When I configure a firewall I don't like to have closed ports passing information back through firewalls that an attacker could use to learn about my environment, but having Open ports that an attacker could exploit is much much worse.
You didn't say what OS, etc. you're running, so the answer to how varies.  On Linux with iptables you do "-j DROP" instead of "-j REJECT", basically.
Depends on what you're trying to do.  Basically, if you don't reply with a packet saying the port is closed, you'll make life more difficult for legitimate users, but possibly also make life difficult for any attackers trying to break into the box. It won't prevent somebody scanning the box to find out what ports are open, but it might slow them down.  And it might make it less likely somebody finds out your system exists in the first place.