When my customers are asking for a PC to run these programs as standalone, I install a 32 bits OS on them, that's all.
I can confirm it behaves exactly the same with any processor (from the weakest Celeron to the fastest i7), and that the lag is absent on any motherboard using an LGA 775 chipset or older, whatever the processor and with or without an add-on video card.
About that, adding lh kb16  in autoexec.nt solves the problem, except the AltGr key is disabled so you can't type any "\", "@", etc. You have to se ALT + ASCII code... Note that it worked correctly in Windows Vista (and wasn't needed in XP). From Windows 7, MS provided a faulty keyboard table and never fixed it.
Maybe you can buy an inexpensive video card and put it in your computer and stop using the integrated VGA or DVI on the motherboard.
Anyway, the best solution right now for DOS apps under 64 bits Windows (and 32 bits Windows if the lag really upsets you) is probably vDos.
Until then, you will experience the delay EVERY TIME you launch your 16 bit program.  Even if you are in a "black" command prompt window already.  You would think the driver has already entered the support mode for the DOS program.  But you will experience the delay when you enter the name of the 16 bit program and hit enter.
The only drawback is the localized keyboard driver (you have to add kb16  in autoexec.ini) that's messed up, as it disables the Alt Gr key, so the extended characters become unavailable (meaning no access to "@", "\", "#", etc. in French, for instance, so users have to hold the Alt key and type in their ASCII codes !)
However, the question remains open about the reason, and hopefully the cure, about this strange lag...
Of course, being able to launch DOS programs under native Windows without the weird lag would be more satisfying. This and the damn keyboard translation bug... It worked allright in Vista, so I'm wondering if the Vista files could be inserted in the latest Windows versions... I still have to identify them.
The delay is not 8 seconds on every system.  On some systems it is longer.  I have a system that always has a 5 second delay.
As a matter of fact, it worked a breeze up to LGA 775 motherboards, and the lag first appeared with LGA 1055 chipsets. I could clearly see it (yes, my customers are using programs written in Clipper. Then what ? They do the job perfectly).
It was not only about DOS apps there, but also about 16 bits Windows apps in general. I've been using Graphic Works 4 for decades (I've bought the license, in case you're wondering) and I can't use it anymore at home because I stupidly installed Windows 7 in 64 bits to get the i7 + 16 GB RAM + 10 Gbps SSD full power, and I even more stupidly updated it to Windows 10... So no more simple technical sketching at home now. :(
In general, dos support were gradually cut since XP (it does not run a small number of programs which worked in 98). That you were able to start them on Windows 7 is already a small miracle. With that in mind, it would not be a total surprise if even DOSBox could run those programs faster than the Windows native "emulation".
I agree using XPMode was slowing down things a bit, but it was very gratifying too, and I sadly regret they removed it from Windows 10.
For now, the most satisfying solution I could find is the vDos emulator. Unlike DosBox, it correctly manages file sharing for multi-user applications (though in this case, it's not free). WMWare also works a breeze, though heavier to install (vDos needs almost no installation. It's actually much faster and easier to use than DosBox).
On the practical side, our multi users customers actually work through PuTTY connected in ssh to Linux servers running Dosemu. At least, we don't have any keyboard nor display issues in this setup (about display issues, Microsoft has been adding CHCP in Windows, while it made no sense at all, since all DOS progams have always been using the standard 437 code page. As a result, some semi-graphic characters display fancy exotic accented characters instead).
It is related to your video card.  I'm betting you are using a Intel core processor with the integrated Intel HD Graphics 4400 processor.
As I said above, launching a DOS program through vDos is immediate : no lag at all. Of course, it's mostly aimed at 64 bits Windows, but it does make using DOS program under 32 bits Windows more convenient, because it removes the damn lag to start with.
Other than that, you get the fastest experience when running these programs under native Windows (you have to re-enable NTVDM in Windows 10, there's a setting for this).
Not every video card supports every video mode.  For instance, some video cards do not support full screen DOS mode.  That is, text 80 columns wide and 25 rows tall.  Some video cards only support DOS programs in a windows.
From my experience, the Intel HD Graphics 4400 integrated processor always causes a multiple second delay launching 16 bit programs.
So is it connected to integrated video processing in the latest motherboards chipsets and intel processors ?