If you think the web stuff will be a drain on resources, which is unlikey since they're a small company, you could put the web server in and keep it on the same subnet. Just change the port forwarding. Is it really worth it though?
You'll be able to configure it to support DHCP etc, and it will secure your web-server in a DMZ, allowing access from both internal and external users with differing security levels.
If you are just forwarding ports 80 and 443 you're going to have to work to introduce any serious security issues. I suppose there is a risk that the next Code Red virus will come along and allow someone to crack the server, but that seems to me a small risk these days.
Is there a way to configure this sort of thing using RRAS? Or am I fighting a lost-cause? Should I persuade them to buy a better router (which has to be CHEAP! - they are a tiny firm, and something I could conceivably setup). Or would keeping the webserver on the same subnet be ok, if some sort of firewall software were properly configured?
I'd convince them to buy a cheap firewall with 3 interfaces (or two interfaces+vlan+a switch). I know Linksys has some very cheap business firewalls wich would suit their needs perfectly.
I think you are (or may be) worrying unnecessarily. After all if you set up an SBS Server you'll find it's (intended to be) available from the Internet so that Outlook Web Access and Remote Web Workplace work. The millions of SBS installations out there don't seem to be heralding a wave of hacked servers.
Fortigate make a pretty simple firewall/router that allows two internal networks, and an external. Some models have WiFi too. They aren't the cheapest around, but are reliable, and full-featured.
The situation (as I recently found out!)  is that they have a website hosted in their office (publically accessible via a fixed-IP that is port-forwarded (80 and 443) on their simple Netgear Wifi AcessPoint/Router to their server). This server holds EVERYTHING for the company - their databases, documents etc. The databases are accessed by the website and internal users with an internal Windows application. The DBs hold fairly private data. When I found out they were doing this I recommended they move the website to another server (they had a spare one), and keep the public access separate from their main server. The main server runs Win2k3 SBS and the Webserver I've setup runs Win2k3 Web Edition.
I'm a developer by trade but because I'm therefore an "expert" at all things IT I'm find myself helping out at my wife's office from time-to-time... however I'm pushing my networking knowledge a little here so I was hoping somebody here could help me out a bit.
What I was thinking of doing was putting the webserver on a different subnet (say 192.168.10.x instead of 192.168.0.x) and having the router forward 80 and 443 onto that. Then multi-home the main server so it can see the other subnet, too. However the router cannot forward to a different subnet so I got a bit stuck and ran out of networking know-how. The router is doing DHCP, by the way.