Any DHCP server, including those of your ISP, can give a client any IP it wants.  It can give a client the same IP over and over.  It can be set to give a specific MAC address the same IP each time.   
And don't try to put your own DHCP server on a DMZ or the WAN side of the network.  Your ISP will call you very quickly and give you a couple hours and tell you to shut it down before they disconnect your service.
There can be following reasons why DHCP server of your router is assigning same IP everytime you connects your device:
The only way for you to have any control over your external gateway IP address is to pay your ISP for a range of static addresses.  Then you are free to use any address within that range, as long as you don't use the same address on two different devices.
If you wish to avoid MAC Spoofing, you could buy a 2nd router from your ISP and a physical switch box.  Then if you had the need to change your IP (or rather the MAC address associated with your IP), you would just switch to your secondary router with it's own unique MAC address.
DHCP works on a lease model - your DHCP client asks a server for an IP, and the server leases the IP to the client for a specified amount of time.  If that time expires and your client hasn't contacted the server, the IP is up for grabs, though this still isn't a guarantee you'll get a different one.  If you are still within lease, it's common for the server to simply provide the same IP you were using before - this covers situations where your system reboots and asks again for an IP.
Otherwise, you are stuck with whatever address their DHCP server assigns to you.  And, according to the rules of the DHCP server, you usually get the first available address, and you keep it until you disconnect completely, for a couple hours, until the address that was leased to you is reissued to someone else.  Then you would get a different address when you switch your modem back on.
You are not guaranteed to get a different IP each time you ask for one.  Indeed, if this were the case, a malicious client could exhaust an IP pool very easily and deny service to other clients.