As I don't know anything about your game, I don't know if this answer fits your problem; but I will give it a try. You can make a level a complete star system (or even a galaxy depending on the size of your gameplay). From one star system to another you cannot travel to the next, because there are lightyears between them. So you can make the player fly "out of the level" and simply never arriving anywhere, because it would simply take years to arrive somewhere.
Or nebula.  Or swarms of planets.  Or space geese.  Or force fields.  Or lazer beams in a gravitationan nexus.  Or space grues.
The engines used to travel around space as if you where in an airplane (your thrusters) cause temporal anomolies / gravitational eddies / random babble.  That changes the nature of space from the current "well, really, nothing here" to whatever random excuse you need to make "dense" terrain for your gameplay.
It's an interesting mechanic; while players are usually unrestricted and can fly anywhere, taking the trade lanes is much more attractive, as you get around in a fraction of the time - from memory, it takes 10-20 minutes to cross the breadth of a typical map without the lanes. So in practice, the trade lanes create a map layout, which you can use to lead your players to landmarks, points of interest, and even risky situations.
Depending on the % of realism you want, just solve the problem and actually do walls. An old space RTS i know (Conquest: Frontier Wars) is doing just that (battle occurs on 2D plane). They invented streams of whatever science stuff who justs act as impenetrable walls (no light of sight and no passing through).
If this is too big for the scope of what you have planned you could go down to a level being the orbit of one planet. The player could not be able to leave this orbit because the gravity is too strong. A door could then be either a new technology, special fuel or the same portals from above. With the latter two options backtracking should be easy to integrate.
If you are creating a fly-around-free in outer space as if you where in an airplane game you are almost certainly bending science so far that the game is fantasy.
If you want technobabble (why don't see seem them now?), take whatever handwavium you use to make your engines and tie them to the new space fantasy elements.
All science fantasy, but so are the engines of the spaceship used in every space-like game I've ever played short of KSP.
There can be parts with dense asteroid fields or whatever.  Picking up navigational solutions to these swarms can let you fly through them.  Or upgrading your ship with a streamlined "frictionless" surface can let you penetrate some "nebulas".  Or narrow choke points defended by automated defences or "force fields" that you have to deactivate.
You could so this on a large scale.  Suppose that the disaster that resulted from the activation of the experimental reactionless drive destroyed entire planets and shoved the debris into a shell, locked there by the gravitational knot.  (Enough technobabble?).  This was later used as weapons, destroying planet after planet.  Only some planets have survived, and since then a defence has been developed.  The existing shells are still out there, and civilization has taken hold in them.  Navigating between them is free-space, but in them it is a set of 3d maze like paths.
Asteroid fields so dense that you'll be destroyed going through them, with a path through it that is free of debris.  Maybe that path is described through nav beacons, maybe it is kept clear by mining robots, whatever.
The 3d maze you can navigate through is the first wave.  You have to go to various spots in the maze, defeat various foes.  (The maze is a home for pirates, or whatever foe you want players to fight.  And maybe space monsters, because that is spacey.  The space monsters can have magic gravitational powers.)
Take Deadspace as an example. The game had open space environments, however the areas were restricted in the form of clustered "debris fields". If you venture too far out there wouldn't be any oxygen tanks, thus the player would die. It looked large, but it was restricted to linear ideal paths.
The doors which enable you to get to another level aka star system is then a black hole/warp point/whatever fits which enables instant travel. If it is technology based you can insert a mechanic to act like keys to activate.
The space sim Freelancer had trade lanes - these offered fast travel between points of interest within a star system.