Always use the maximum time you could imagine it will take within the range the client can call this "acceptable": he'll be happy when you finish earlier and you'll be proud, free, and ready to continue to the next task as soon as you feel like doing it.
As the others say, detailed planning is your friend. Maybe you'll still be unsure how long each task will take, but you will get a better idea than you have now and you'll have a better perception of how many tasks you have. Take the following example from your post:
For scheduling, if you have the luxury of two weeks uninterrupted, I'd work on one project until it's done.  Then go on to the next.  While working on one project, you could start preliminary work on other projects, but I wouldn't do anything that's not easy to undo.
For the migration and rebuilding projects, the first chunks should be to document what's there already: how the services work, what's installed, where the install files are.  For the rebuild, what's the hardware, what drivers are needed, what apps are installed, where are the install files.
If you're learning on the fly, I wouldn't expect to get all that stuff done in 2 weeks.  I'd start with whichever project you understand the best, i.e. the one you can break down into sub-tasks the most confidently.
 What are you backing up? to use my example above, it can be increasingly more complex to back up and restore a database server than it is a simple file server.
Document what you do and how long it takes as you go along so you can see what takes time and improve your estimating for the next time.
When you are totally unsure, game it out.  Break down the projects into as small chunks as you can possibly imagine and estimate the time each chunk takes.  Go over in your mind the pieces that comprise the job and imagine you doing them.  Proper time estimates come from making estimates, doing, then seeing where you are off.
As Blackeagle said, break the projects down into smaller steps that you can estimate.  I wouldn't go so far as to say "as small chunks as you can imagine," but break it into small enough chunks that you can estimate the time for the chunks.
 Some services are more complex to move than others (e.g. DNS is easy to move, Open Directory is more complex than DNS, Exchange server would be very complex indeed)
How are they currently backed up? How hard is it to install the backup software? How much configuration does it need? How long does it take to restore a server? To back up a sever? (you'll need to do this at least once more than you probably planned to already as part of your test regime to ensure the system is restored correctly, for example). If these are key servers how long can they be offline? How will you mitigate the possibility that you can' restore them because there's a problem with the backups or hardware that only becomes apparent when you start working?