Bitbucket is a free alternative to the paid private repositories found on Github. It is a bit harder to use, but you won't pay a penny.
For the project management we use Rally: http://www.rallydev.com/ that it's oriented to agile methodologies like Scrum, you can track tasks, milestones, defects of all the members of your project, calendar activities, backlog, etc..., and it's on web so it's very easy to update.
Recently I started with a team a game project and during the design phase of the game we decide use some tools that may help you on the long run.
The only downside is that unless you choose one of their community/open source packages (which prevent you from making your "space", as they call it, private) that come with a subset of the available tools, you need to pay a monthly fee depending on the options you want.
It's up to you to decide if the community/open source packages fit your needs or if you can/want to afford one of their monthly plans.  I personally use an 8$/month plan for a serious game project I'm working on and it's really great (includes tickets, SVN, milestones, wiki).  All tools integrate very well with one another.  My friends and I also use assembla for our common open source projects and class assignments as it makes managing a software development team a real breeze.
You'll probably need to install something like XAMPP to use it locally. But it will be much more power if you could host it on your own server.
I've used Assembla for a while and it's very powerful, especially if you're going to be working with a team (small or large) at some point.  It provides many tools (SVN/Git/CVS, milestones, tickets, wiki, a file archive and many more).
I personally use Wiki software. My two favorites are PMWiki (for its simplicity) and Trac. Trac is especially awesome because it is a Bugtracker (where you control Milestones), a Repository Browser and also has a wiki for anything you can imagine. So you have everything in one package, for free!
For programming specific task on the personal schedule we use Google Calendar, for project hosting we use Google Code, and for exchange big files and other stuff the best option is Dropbox.