Short version: I don't know any more diagnostic tests to try, and I don't even have a suspicion about what part is actually causing the issue.
I'm going to guess that you already did a CMOS clear and flashed the bios to latest version and then cleared the CMOS again?  No over clocking and memory settings match your sticks?
I've also managed to (briefly, occasionally) get to the BIOS POST Message screen. I get a message that it's "Initializing USB Controllers", and pops up a message briefly just as the power dies (I have no idea what this message says. It's literally there just as the power cuts off for less than a second). 
Do you have any case fans that aren't spinning?  Could be the PSU or something pulling the PSU down like a shorted fan.  Had it happen on a pc of mine and it took me 2 months to figure it out.  It would be okay for a week or it would shut down in the loop like you are describing.
I've gone through a number of diagnostics steps myself, and the computer eventually successfully powers on - but none of the previous things that "worked" have worked when I tried them as the first step when the problem re-occurs (indicating co-incidence or some other factor I'm not aware of).
It could be the USB Controller that's the problem, but I've no idea how to go about determining that.
The most recent hardware change was swapping out some hard drives following a disk failure a few weeks ago.
Eventually, I've managed to get it to power on, and it behaves normally. It restarts properly for a day or two (can turn off and on again), then suffers a failure again.
Not sure how to go about diagnosing the issue - could do with some pointers on where to look if anything. The things I've tried that seemed to have fixed it have only worked once in each case, indicating that it's coincidence rather than my efforts.
Recently my computer has started exhibiting a problem when being turned on from cold boot. It shows the motherboard/bios "Splash screen" (ASUS P7P55 Lx Motherboard), beeps for POST, then powers off. It restarts automatically, and repeats in a loop.