At this moment I have disconnected the display port cable from KVM-to-Desktop, but am still using the KVM to switch my controls (both mouse and keyboard) and use my other 2 remaining monitors on the desktop PC successfully.
Note that unplugging the power cable does not completely power off the KVM switch as any USB cable connected to the switch while also connected to the
and Also the troubleshooting here: https://www.startech.com/faq/kvm_switches_general#SV211DPUA - by switching KVM and External cables, and performing the startup all over again, for example.
I opened a chat w/ Startech, and they were actually quite helpful.  Below are the further tests performed:
When I first turn on my Desktop PC, the KVM works fine.  Then I switch to my surface, still works fine.  Finally, I go back to my DESKTOP PC, and the HDMI-Connected screen (no KVM) begins to flicker on and off a few seconds at a time.  The DP connected screen (through KVM) stays completely black, but the monitor light is blue (meaning it's not in idle).  If I disconnect the DP cable from the DESKTOP PC, or turn the kvm-connected monitor OFF, the DESKTOP PC loads the 2nd HDMI-connected monitor without issue.
I have a similar issue with my inexpensive Monoprice monitors - occasionally on switching with my Startech DP switch, the monitor stays black. However, I am using an nVidia professional card with EDID set from a file, not read from the DP connection, which prevents all my application windows from moving to one monitor when I switch the second monitor.
On my DESKTOP PC, which has a GTX 1070 with the latest drivers, and Windows 10 fully updated including the creator's update, this KVM switch always has issues which I will describe in more detail below.  The Desktop PC has 2 HDMI-connected monitors which are NOT going through any KVM.  They are always on.  The KVM controls only one monitor via display port.
SV211DPUA (https://www.startech.com/Server-Management/KVM-Switches/2-Port-DisplayPort-KVM-Switch~SV211DPUA)
So finally, I'm asking about what on my software or hardware side on my Desktop PC could cause this issue and if anyone has more items to try or look into to fix it.
However, they conclude that it's not hardware related to the KVM as the switch is very simple (see below).
I have decided the issue is in the monitor - it doesn't recover properly from the switching. My fix was to hook up the monitors to a remote power switch (since they have no power switch) and cycle power when this happens. That always fixes it.