Doing so, all the "data" that could have integrity problems has been remade from A to Z. If this doesn't solve the issue, then I don't know.
Hereby distributing a lot of e-mails into YEARLY PERSONAL MAILBOX may solve or even prevent 'Verifying Data Integrity' before it happened.
I think he should put his entire inbox online, if possible, and then delete every trace of Microsoft Outlook 2010 and his email on the computer. And then reinstall Outlook and fetch his email back. Email that's at Microsoft isn't stored as files - at least I REALLY don't think so - but database entries. By redownloading his mail, the files in which his messages are should be created anew.
sounds like a corrupt OST file. I'm assuming this is an Exchange E-mail setup, usually I just go to the  %APPDATA%, then go back from ROAMING to APPDATA\Local\Microsoft\Outlook location and rename the problematic OST file to like .OST.OLD which forces Outlook to just download all the e-mail from the server again. Then I would seriously consider having this user Archive older e-mails so their mailbox is around 2 GB. Not sure why there are 2 OST files unless he has 2 different Exchange accounts installed within Outlook, or maybe one is a corrupt OST file from the past where this troubleshooting technique was already used? You can click File-->Account Settings, and then click the Data Files tab to see if that OST file is loaded, and associated with an Exchange account that has been added to Outlook.
If so, there should be a way to sync inboxes so that his email shows up on Outlook.com / Hotmail.com, which is stored on their servers, and independent from his eventual file integrity issues.
I don't know much about Microsoft Outlook, but is his address a Microsoft one? Or any other that you know mail is stored online and doesn't have a size limit? (Gmail is limited to a few GB, but Hotmail is unlimited, I believe.)
PS: Beware, if you have some other email software, such as Windows 8's default program or the Mozilla one, there's a possibility those still hold the mail and Outlook would fetch it there. Make sure no mail, contacts, anything, remains locally, and that every single file can be created anew.