That depends on the virus. If it resides in the registry or in a driver of somesort then I think it may be able to or if it was installed using a rogue windows update. Most likely it will not remove the virus because most viruses replicate themselves and make it difficult to remove.
YES system restore CAN INDEED get rid of a virus. But (OBVIOUSLY) you have to pick a point prior to which the infection occurred!
So yes, if you're going to re-install anyway, try this. What harm can it do? None. It might just save your day.
Theoretically, it can -at best- stop the virus from working.  That'd be if it only infected some files that start up now and didn't start up in the past, and if it has left the system restore points intact.  But viruses aren't ever that useless to not infect any system files! So no, it won't. Since in practice, it won't even prevent the virus from working, since the virus will infect a bunch of files, some system files.. that'll run inevitably. 
If it's a virus, then the best thing is to "disable system restore",  this wipes system restore folder clean(so if there was a virus stored there it is gone). Then run the virus scan. Then enable it. System restore really won't help you at all for a virus. It can help with other types of malware though.
I had the "services.freshy.com" (browser hijacker) and tried a variety of things, used various spyware removers, but nothing worked. Of course there was one on-line tech help that was eager to take my $65 for a removal service.... almost fell for that, figured in the worst case I would re-install the entire OS (Windows 7, btw). Then I remembered the system restore point. Tried it, and.... BINGO! It worked! Now I'll go back and try to remove any restore points that were created when the malware was active.
system restore does remove viruses but it would be better to do a system restore as soon as your computer has been infected that way you get the best restore point. doing it at a later date wont help get the best restore point some viruses can attack even with an anti-virus active thats when you have to do a system restore... and be sure to update/re-install your anti virus each time you do it
Malware other than viruses, like spyware or adware, can sometimes be -not removed- by system restore, but stopped from working via a system restore. (if the malware left the system restore intact). By the way, you can make your own registry backup with ERUNT.
In fact, to make sure that no virus is still residing on your computer you should first delete all system restore points and do a manual cleaning of the virus or let your antivirus software handle it if it can.