And any Android game developer that sends us their video could be featured at Game Developers Conference in San Francisco
Starting in Android 4.4, there's native screen recording. You can use ADB from a computer the phone is connected to or there are at least a dozen or so apps to help you do it (some with root, some without).
The main downside of that method is that audio capture is more difficult - you will probably need to recreate it or replace it with something else.
we now have a free SDK that allows you to record videos with no overhead (we capture all the OpenGL calls) within any app or game.
It's also helps if you can record and replay any required user inputs since the game will be running in slow motion thanks to the screen shot saving.
I know this question is a little old but Android has changed some in the past 3 years so I think it's worth posting this answer.
As you can take screen shots, could you simply lock your time step to say 1/30th sec (instead of using actual elapsed time) and save a screen shot every frame, which you can reassemble afterwards into a video on your PC.
This isn't the easiest way, but it doesn't require rooting your phone. You can slow down your game, run it in the emulator, record a video of the emulator, and then speed up the video.  More details on http://www.firedroid.net/2010/07/01/recording-android-games/
With root, you should be able to find an app that can record the screen and any audio produced by your device without any additional cords or computers. I have less experience with these apps so I can't make a good recommendation although I think Shou.tv should be able to do this. Shou.tv can also stream if that's something you want to do.
I am not a developer of any apps or games mentioned or linked to. Also, for the record, all of this software is free. An 8 foot cable for you headphone/mic jack connection can run $12 but is really useful to have on hand for more than just this task.
Without root, you'll be able to record the screen. I don't think you can get ANY of your phones audio if you don't have root. However, I've found a 3.5mm to 3.5mm cord can connect my phone's headphone jack to my laptop's mic jack and Audacity can record the audio just fine. My favorite app for screen recording is Lollipop Screen Recorder (and I have tested it all the way out to Marshmallow, it works great). Here's a video produced with this exact setup and what it looks/sounds like. I'm a crappy youtuber, but let this stand as hopefully a victory for the setup.
I've been keeping a blog for my current Android game and as I get closer to an actual playable version of the game, screenshots just aren’t enough to show new progress anymore. What I need is video. The problem is, my game won’t run on the current emulator (uses OpenGL ES 2.0), and my computer couldn’t run the emulator if it wanted to anyways. So desktop video capture is out of the question. The only real idea I have is holding the phone in front of the only video camera I own: a webcam… yeah. Does anyone know a better (preferably free) way to capture video from an Android device?