All the ones that tested the game, praised it, thus it is not fault of the game, but fault of me not finding the testers around... But since all the few ones that I found praise the game, this mean that I am not getting meaningful feedback...
My company puts up ads on Craigslist and we seem to generally find people. Mention that there is some free pizza in it for them if you need an extra incentive (or money if you happen to have some).
Have you ever considered utilizing kids from a school/club by offering an after school program? If you were to present yourself as a game developer and thought that you could offer a class/club/lecture/whatever and that it would positive for them I bet a lot of places would be interested in having you come on by. They would gladly pass the word along to their kids, and I know when I was younger that I thought it was the coolest thing in the world to test games. I really thought that was the best job in the world at the time. =D
I am making my first indie retail game, I hosted a prototype on www.agfgames.com but I am struggling to find testers...
Put your game on a laptop and go to a place where people are hanging out. If it's summer, head for an ice-cream shop and ask people to play your game. Coffeeshops are great for this too. Check out the location beforehand and verify that there are power outlets and that you can have a conversation without yelling, though.
Being a company made only of myself, and having no budget (actually, I have huge debts because of college), I cannot hire a testing service, but I am failing to find testers on my own, does not matter how much I try... Sometimes I spend half of the week in marketing, trying to find testers...
Once you're starting to test for stability, definitely put together a friends-and-family email list and send them builds. People who know you will be more likely to get back to you quickly, especially if you need esoteric details from them, such as their processor and graphic specs. 
If you did do something like that maybe you could break up your testing of the game in parts and have each part be a lesson. That way the kids still get to learn something cool and in return they will learn how to be "testers" by testing your game.
If you are playtesting early builds, it's good to test in-person. You can actually observe players getting frustrated, discovering exploits, or having fun in real-time, and it's easier to ask them questions immediately after they are done testing. For indie games, simpler solutions are often better. 
Try some social websites.  Reddit is a really good place to get people to try out your product (if it's interesting enough).  Just make sure you find the right subreddit(s) to post it under.
Of course, you want to be able to reach out to total strangers as well, but don't ignore low-hanging fruit.
You can put up paper posters at local colleges and schools. I strongly recommend reaching out to middle-schoolers, as they have the skills to play pretty complex games with none of the shyness. (They will tell you exactly why a game sucks to your face.) Science/technology/math teachers may let you test a game with their students in exchange for a talk about game development or programming.