Also, one additional risk to consider in the security is the danger of spreading viruses and worms through the LAN. This may become a liability if people complain that their machines was infected and caused problems. Perhaps having the patrons sign a waiver would get around this, but I'm not a lawyer, so it would be a good idea to consult a lawyer for legal advice.
Security products which can be centrally controlled will probably come in handy when working with more than a few machines. Considering labor is going to cost money (and yes, your time is also worth money as well), so investing in some system with centralized control will probably make your life much easier.
One of the challenges will be keeping the computers secure from a hardware and software perspective.
Build machines that are able to handle the latest games.  Don't skimp on the video cards.  Use software that will skin Vista (gotta have DX10) to prevent low level access, only access to the games.  I would be curious as to how many gamers want coffee when they are playing though.
Building is the easy part.  Maintaining will be the challenge.  Real gamer types will find it hard to play on commodity keyboards, mice, and controllers.  But when I've shelled out thousands for the good stuff, I'll find it hard to handle users destroying them.
If the systems are running Windows, I think that Windows Firewall settings can be controlled by Group Policy Objects on Active Directory. I'm aware that there are enterprise security products which allow central control of security software, but again, these two suggestions may be expensive depending on the scale of machines on a network. Again, weigh the costs and benefits.
If the hardware is at risk of theft, it may become necessary to physically lock down the hardware with locks and cut-proof wiring to anchor them to furniture.
The business plan may need to factor in a time = money model, either by direct pay as you go, moral obligation to buy a beverage/snack, or maybe indirect temptation to buy something that looks good while you're there.
Depending on the degree of supervision your hardware will have, I would expect that there would have to be a varying degree of physical security for your machines. Some questions to ask would be:
You have two very specific needs here. The gamers will need at least medium-grade gaming rigs while your 'café' type users couldn't care less about the hardware they use. They need email, browsing and messaging.
For the café types, I would just invest in Atom based mini computers and focus on the 'café' appeal in that specific area, this means more lightning that the gamers are used to.
If machines or storage devices from the outside is allowed onto the local network, this can be a breeding ground for viruses and worms. It would probably be a good idea to have up-to-date antivirus software (with automatic update) on all machines and firewalls with sensible settings for only allowing certain ports to pass.
I have wondered about this myself and it is hard to perfectly make use of the housing, being attractive to gamers while maintaining an attractive 'café' appeal so the tourists won't run away.
Not to mention the need for security from the outside world, i.e. the Internet. This is something that can't be ignored, but probably could be performed by having an outward facing firewall that all systems can go through.
To play up the Gaming aspect, I would invest in network cards from Bigfoot Networks.  If you can provide the best experience possible, people will come back.
This is a tricky business because these two customer groups are extremely different in many ways. Gamers like to yell at each other while bouncing rockets in Quake Arena while tourists like their peace and quiet while browsing their email, blogging, etc. Gamers prefer dark areas where the glare doesn't mess with their 'fragging skills'. Tourists like open, bright areas. 
I also haven't figured out how to handle those overstaying their welcome.  If there are no time limits, the stations will all be taken by local kids who spend the least and take the most.
For the gamers I would avoid always buying the latest hardware, it simply doesn't generate enough revenue to be affordable. Try medium-range stuff.
The only thing these two groups have in common is that both groups will likely buy a lot of caffeine and food. 
Obviously, you don't have the time or money to keep installing the operating system from the ground-up whenever somebody breaks something. So un-attended installs and ghosting are your friend (ghost or partition image f.e.).