If you are using Ubuntu 12.04 or even 11.04, Partimage should be available from the Ubuntu software center. This installation method will allow you to easily search and install your selected software.
Step 1. Open the Ubuntu Software Center and locate the search bar in the top right hand corner of the window. Type "partimage" in the search bar then press enter. The partimage software package will be the first to display. Also returned from this search are partclone (utility to clone and restore a partition), partimage-server (use partimage across a network), and partimage-doc (partition image user documentation). You will want to click install and let the software center install the package for you.
I'm running Ubuntu Desktop 12.04, and I was wondering if it was possible to somehow take my whole filesystem (everything under /) and create an ISO from it. Then, perhaps, use that ISO as the file system of a VBox VM (obviously, it would have to be Ubuntu, and probably 12.04).
Step 5.  This screen is fairly self explanatory. You will first want to select the desired compression level if any. You may also change how the image will be split during the writing process. The default mode is to create a 2Gb files. The final option gives Part Image instructions on what to do if it finishes the job succesfully. Choose which ever option is most appropriate for your situation. 
Step 2. Open Terminal and enter the following command " sudo partimage", then enter your password and press enter.
If you want to make a VHD (virtual hard disk) from the physical disk, they only tool I know of would be disk2VHD. That is a Windows only tool. However, you can also use the Linux tool dd. There is a good tutorial for this found here.
Step 3. After entering your password the Partimage application should display in the Terminal window.
Basically, I've spent a lot of time configuring my development machine, but need to be able to work on it from whatever computer I happen to be at. VMs seem like the perfect solution. Thanks in advance!
It'd probably be easier to create a fresh VM, install Ubuntu on it, and then back up your dev box and restore the backup to the VM. That'd give you a VM you could run on any machine where VirtualBox is, or could be, installed. 
To start you can create a disk image using the partimage utility in a command line interface. After this I imagine you would be able to boot the newly create iso with VMware. 
That said, is there a reason you couldn't just open up VNC or SSH access to your existing dev box, and access it remotely? If possible, that might well be a simpler option -- at the least, it'd save you some suffering every time you want to use the dev box from a new machine. 
So there are one of two ways to do this. To make an ISO directly you should use Remastersys. This is a tool that will allow you to create an ISO of the current system. You can then boot off the ISO and get that enviornemtn as a LiveCD. A good guide can be found here.