The direct distance to the closet is about 5 meters (about 16 feet). A cable solution would have to span about 12 meters (about 40 feet).
Is this possible to achieve in this day and age within a reasonable price range, and with decent image quality? I imagine the distances are too long for DVI and USB cables.  Is that correct, or is DVI more generous in cable length than VGA used to be?
And I guess you don't need to extend the power cord ;-) though if you did I guess a retractable power cord type thing would do it.
I am very familiar with a computer being noisy and it being too expensive to make it cooler.. (though nowadays this is not such an issue). But the solution to this has always been a KVM Extender
Here's a page of options. See if they fit your budget. Cost really depends on whether you want audio extended too and whether you use VGA or DVI for the display.
I would like to place the computer in a closet on the other side of the room, so there is only the keyboard, mouse, and screen on my desk. (The closet has ventilation holes going outside the building so there is no risk of overheating.) 
Pekka: Be careful about PCs in closet space.  I had a server that used a cheap motherboard in a closet for 1.5 years.  Admittedly, my offices can get warm during Texas weekends, and temps would hit 95F (your 35C) at least twice on the weekends for about 100 days a year.  The outcome of all this, was at least one capacitor failed on the motherboard, creating no end of trouble just to locate that the capacitor, indeed, was the source of the problem.  So, be mindful, that improper ventilation/cooling can cause you trouble down the road.
Another way but not as good, is USB can be extended at 5M intervals with USB Boosters. Each one plugs into a mains power source.
By the way, old computer science books call the CPU the box.. But since then people call the CPU the processor. You refer to the box.
If, on the other hand it does not use much power, then probably installing a quieter fan (I assume the noise is coming mainly from that) might be your best option.
If your computer is loud because it burns through a lot of electrical power, which in turn produces a lot of heat that must be removed, it might be a very bad idea to put it in an enclosed space with not enough ventilation. At least monitor the internal temperature of the critical components. Modern CPUs throttle down on overheating, but your graphics card, hard drive and the mainboard components used to provide current to your CPU will not take overheating lightly.
And by the way.. I have a 50" VGA cable, works perfectly. It was very thick.. maybe that was why. I heard of a guy with a 50" VGA cable that didn't have good results.
If the noise comes from your hard drive(s), you either have very old ones or they are close to fail because of failing bearings.