I would recommend running an MD5 sum on the version you've downloaded and compare with the code I've provided above. Unfortunately they don't provide a hash on their website to validate the exe downloaded is valid.
As a fix-all solution, try initiating the installation through ninite.com - it's a tool that provides quick, dialogue-less setup for a number of software programs.
As a side note, you can also simply use their installer again to download updated versions of the software you have installed.
Edit: Second side note, this website is reputable and recommended by many other reputable companies, just in case anyone says otherwise.
The usual reasons for Windows 7 reporting an exe as "Not a valid Win32 application" is for one of the following reasons:
I have downloaded the newest version 8.0.18051 of TeamViewer 8 from their website. It claims to be "compatible with Windows 8".
3 is also unlikely if you've downloaded it from the Teamviewer website. Malware is possible if the code/site had been compromised but unlikely given the volume of users of this product who would have reported something by now.
It is most likely not option 2 as it is designed to run on Windows 7 and 8 - I'm running it on both OSes (64 bit)
Simply select the program(s) (Teamviewer) you wish to install and scroll to the bottom and select "Download Installer".
If we look at the reasons for 1 we know your file isn't missing (it's not trying to run a pre-installed application with missing dependencies.) So we are faced with it being corrupt or bad - that is, the file hasn't successfully downloaded completely.
However, I have TV 8.0.17396 running on my Win7 x64, because I upgraded it from an former TV7 version.
That may be true for a 32-bit OS, but I cannot get the downloaded setup.exe to install on either Windows 7 x64 or Windows 8 Pro x64. Win7 says it's not a Win32 application; Win8 just says "This app can't run on your PC".
The reason I suggest this is because it automatically runs a checksum on the download to verify its integrity (as Taylor Gibb suggested above), and runs the installer appropriate for your version of Windows (x86 or x64). It will also give you verbose error messages that might give you further indication to any other issues you might have.
I've just downloaded the same version for Windows (I'm assuming the full version and not the portable version etc.) 