My suggestion would be to consider this carefully and approach it delicately. You may create an adversarial situation between you and your employer: you think you should be compensated and they think it's part of the job. This may create a position that is untenable from either or both sides. If you're met with resistance then discuss with your employer how the two of you can find some middle ground, possibly by factoring this after hours work into your next salary increase.
I've burned out of several jobs like this in the non-profit and startup sectors... and I wouldn't do it again for anything less than a butler to carry my pager, laptop and sat-phone, and a chartered Gulfstream when I needed to fly back to the office from by beach-front cabana.  And even then I'd think long and hard about taking the gig.
So if they can't afford well-built systems, but they can afford to drag your sorry carcass out of bed at 03:17, they will wake you up Every. Single. Time.  AND they will never fix the underlying cause of the fault.  Why?  Because you woke up and took care of it for them, the cheapest possible way of avoiding the pain - for everybody involved except you. 
Actual dollar amounts will be particular to your exact situation and what is fair for the responsibilities.
My situation is that I'm expected to be available 24/7 as part of my job. My salary is structured such that I'm compensated highly enough that there is no additional pay for actually responding to after normal hours events, that is factored in to my salary. While it's true that I have more responsibility and work more hours than the other employees, it's also true that my compensation is much higher than those other employees.
A lot depends on how much your employer is willing to pay you. In some countries there may be laws constraining this.
In the UK for instance, the EU working time directive applies and is applicable to on-call periods. However this addresses the amount of hours worked, also a lot of employers (unofficaly) require employees to sign waivers of their rights - AFAIK this practice, though seemingly widespread has not been tested in court. Also in the UK, there is a legally enforcable minimum wage - but you'd need to do some research on whether this is applicable to on-call periods.
The short answer is £50 per day on call, £50 per call, then your normal chargeable rate for any time you spend responding. Double time on weekends and holidays.
If rotating, an appropriate stipend considering the average likely amount of time spent with the additional responsibilities outside of business hours.  This would be paid during the pay-period in which you were on call.
I'd assume salaried, as hourly work in IT isn't well structured for this.  If hourly, the overtime and rates would not vary from your normal pay usually unless billed externally.
Certainly you need to be well-informed about the legal constraints, and I would recommend if you are negotiating for work and conditions for on-call support that you discuss travel-time and recovery periods.
The long answer is that it depends on the client and their expectations, the type of problems that are likely to need 24/7 attention, and what level of service and response time the client wants.
If they can't afford to "build it right" then their business model is flawed - Either they don't need the availability they think they do,  or their revenue is too low to support their operations.
My opinion is that it depends on whether you're a salaried or an hourly employee, whether or not there are any applicable laws regarding on call or overtime pay in your state\country, what are the terms of your employment contract, etc., etc.
Your price for providing 24/7 coverage should be markedly higher than the CapEx costs of building the infrastructure properly for the availability the business requires.   
Note even if you are not in the EU, then I would still recommend reading the document linked above - and using it in support of your position.