Don't buy the Rosewill one.  I tried that one first and found that whichever drive is connected first, the dock mangles its IDENTIFY_DEVICE response so that it appears to not support 6 Gbps speeds, or Native Command Queueing or SMART health reporting and has a bogus firmware revision ( the second drive works fine ).  When I contacted their tech support, they claimed that they did not even make a device that supports access to both drives at once, and then that it did not have a port multiplier in it, though it most certainly does report that is a port multiplier with two drives behind it.  Rosewill claims it only supports a single drive when using the eSATA connection rather than the USB3 connection so they don't seem to know their arse from a hole in the ground.
The pmp indicates port multiplier support, and fbs indicates Fis Based Switching, which gets you better and more even performance when accessing both drives at the same time.  My case also has an eSATA port on the front panel that does not work properly so I have to plug it into the back panel on the motherboard.
Note here that I am only talking about hot plugging a second drive into the dock, not hot plugging the dock as a whole into the computer while it is running, which requires no special support.
The Thermaltake BlacX Duet works great, though I don't get great performance when accessing both drives at the same time due to my controller not supporting Fis Based Switching.  You can tell whether it supports this if you are running linux by finding a line like this in your dmesg or /var/log/kern.log:
Without port multiplier support on the controller, the second drive won't show up at all.  The hot plug capability depends on support in the port multiplier in the dock.  Unfortunately, the Thermaltake one does not support it ( the Rosewill one did ) so both drives have to be plugged in when you turn the dock on.  If you want to add the second drive then you have to unmount and power down the dock first.  You can tell in linux because you see a line like this in dmesg:
If not, then you will not have plug & play capabilities on both drives.  You couldnt add a 2nd drive to the dock later, as the OS wouldnt see it.  They would both have to be there when the device is initialized.  And if both were and you unmounted one, you wouldnt be able to remount it.
Does anyone have experiencing using a dual slot external hard drive docking station with only one eSATA port on the back? Do both drives show up in the OS even though only one eSATA cable is connected? I'm curious because there's a dock I'm looking at that has 2 eSATA ports and many others that only have one. I'm thinking that the dock male connectors internally plug into "two" eSATA host and then are redirected to 1 single output but I want to be sure.
The result is going to depend a lot on the hardware in the dock and on your motherboard.  If the dock and your eSATA controller support port multipliers, you will have no issues at all.  