I have no idea why, but for some reason, resetting the wireless adapter on the Vista machine fixed all the problems. I hadn't thought to do that yet because the internet (and pinging the 2 routers) was working flawlessly on that machine. I'm confused as to how a USB wifi dongle could cause local network traffic to fail, while having internet work fine, but there you go.
Now... have you turned off the Windows Firewalls for each of these computers for testing purposes yet?  That should be done, to ensure that the Firewall included with Windows isn't causing the ping request to be blocked.  You didn't say which version of Windows you are using, and with Windows 7 ICMP are indeed blocked by default with the built-in firewall.  So, if you wanted to continue to use the firewall, you would have to create an exception on each computer to allow ICMP (ping) requests through.  This doesn't mean the computers can't communicate with each other.  You could have multiple network sharing services actively working with Windows 7, and still be blocked from pinging the machines.  But *at the very least, disabling the firewall temporarily for testing** would be the way to go to see if indeed it is the firewall at issue here.
Sorry to everyone who wasted time reading my in-depth descriptions and trying to figure this out, your help is appreciated.
You left out something.  You set up the server, gave it an exception in the firewall, you set up a client, gave it an exception in the firewall, and then decided to ping each computer.  You didn't say what happened in between.  Was it that you started the game on the client machine, and it couldn't see the server?  Or did you think "Hmm... I wonder if these computer can even see each other, I'd better ping them." before you tried to connect the client to the server?  Did you stick with the default port of 7777?
The second router upstairs is NOT using DHCP to pass out IP addresses, correct?  If it is, you should turn off that service on the second router.  I'm not saying to turn it off on both... the second router should essentially be set up in bridge mode... where it simply allows other computers to connect to the network it is part of.  For example, with a Belkin router, you would simply enable "Bridge Mode" and multiple features (like DHCP) would be turned off and made inaccessible.
Would love to know why this happens, but it's a spurious problem, and I don't believe it has anything to do with settings in the router being incorrect.
This has happened to me a number of times, out of the blue. I lose connectivity to the Internet, then I try to ping the router at 192.168.0.1, and it tells me that the destination host 192.168.0.9 is unreachable.  That's my laptop which I'm issuing the ping from.
Tonight it seemed like the Roku, my laptop and my son's laptop all lost internet connectivity.  Pinging, gave me the results I just mentioned. Pulling power on the router and restarting it resolved the problem.