I found having my own designated office with a door was nice.  I used my laptop at home, but used a terminal services session to work off of a lot.  We had a terminal services server, so I loaded Microsoft Office and other software I needed on it.  Created my profile on it and mostly worked off of that for the speed.  It was like working in the office.
When the boss is considering who to promote, since he doesn't see your face around the office every day, you might not be at the top of the list.  
Well, first of all, I hope whatever company you will be working for is going to both provide you with VPN access, as well as pay for your home internet, since it is now a business requirement.  Once that stuff is out of the way...
Test your VPN connection before you go.  Too many things are changing at once.  You want to have a baseline before you move 5 hours away.
Between those three items, I was in serious good shape.  However sometimes there were those occasions where I would have needed to be in front of the server, but then I just called one of my counterparts.
I worked from home a couple days a week for a year or so to help lower the amount of commuting days I had.  I agree with the first post, make sure to have a seperate comfortable room in the house to work out of to eliminate distractions.  Working at the kitchen table has to many distractions.
Brent Ozar had a few good blog posts about it. I read all of them, and I am never going to get to telecommute.
Ensure your workspace is both comfortable and void of too many distractions.  It is very easy to be either 10x more productive when working remotely, and also 100x less productive.  You will have to learn to manage your time very well.
We also had VOIP in the office, so I had a cisco phone on my desk at home with my work extension on it.  Being I had a firewall in my home with a site to site tunnel the one phone worked great.  Users calling me had no idea I was in my home office.
Depending on how mobile you will be, since you mentioned a laptop and cell phone as your mobile office, I would suggest setting yourself up with some sort of semi-permanent home office with the above prescribed phone setup, which you can set your cell phone to forward to, as well as a proper keyboard-mouse-monitor and a quality laptop docking station.
It can also be hard to get used to not working in collaborative environment, so make sure the proper communication mediums are present.  Invest in a quality phone with either a good speakerphone, a comfortable headset, or both.  One thing I hated when I worked remotely was long conference calls on a crappy phone.