There are ways of preventing outbound traffic unless a human is involved, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captive_portal
In case of malware on a host, what is the point of blocking outgoing traffic with the same machine's firewall? The astute malware author will use whatever means (standard APIs for exception rules or something rootkit-like) to allow it to communicate with the internet.
It is up to the firewall to determine which traffic can flow in which direction, if you haven't configured any outbound rules, then, by default it will probably allow all outbound connections.
Most firewalls (that I've worked with) have an implicit allow rule that allows all traffic from a more secure network (usually the internal LAN) to a less secure network (usually the internet) so that all outbound traffic is allowed from your internal LAN to the internet (or to a DMZ) You do not usually need to create explicit rules to allow outbound traffic.
For standard over-the-retail-counter router/firewall combos, outbound gets less attention than inbound traffic. The last few I've seen had the ability to limit outbound as well. The focus is reversed though. On my home NetGear it allows inbound and blocks outbound. I can allow SSH into a specific host and deny telnet outbound. In this sense it is not a true full-featured firewall. Some such routers do have the ability to block specific internal IP addresses from accessing the Internet side of such devices, though not all do.
"In the case of malware" is separate, as that can only be determined by the PC itself. (Unless you invest in a N/IDS).
The hardware firewall cannot readily distinguish between "good" or "bad" packets, since they all come from the same source. The software firewall can ascertain which application generated the packet, so is better prepared to block them as desired.
Most firewalls (that I've worked with) have an implicit deny rule that denies all traffic from a less secure network (usually the internet) to a more secure network (usually the internal LAN) so that all inbound traffic is denied from the internet (or from a DMZ) to your internal LAN. You do usually need to create explicit rules to allow inbound traffic.