Optionally, you could consider vortual workbench like Che (in case it is mature enough for your purposes, can't judge on this.)
Instead of trying to watch, how about working together to define a scripted way of defining environments that is scm managed.  Having the configuration for deployment in the SCM insures they are always consistent and allows the collaboration and communication between team members about the ways they want to work.  
So I was envisioning having a script that each would run daily and which would post that data to some web service within some application that does this kind of stuff within the DevOps realm -- team management etc. Is there such an app for local developer management, just like Jenkins does builds or Chef does deployments?
This would also facilitate the communication between team members a fundamental principle of DevOps.   
There are many tools that can be used to script the configuration of the system level as well as the application level definitions.  Using this kind of definition based environment configuration not only helps with the development level, but then also helps with the deployment to later stages capabilities.  
If one would use a tool to spy other systems then that is not aligned with DevOps. DevOps is about getting rid of silos. Using a tool for "secretly" monitoring colleague system is a contradiction. Imagine that the developers would know that such a tool is used, then silos will be created again and that is not DevOps. DevOps is about building bridges between team members and departments, e.g. Ops, Dev and QA.
I would like to start collecting parameters from local developer environments on my team, such as to see how they configure their properties files (not in source control), what directory they use as their application root, where they have this and that software installed etc.
Ideally, I would go into this console and get an idea of how each developer on my team has their environment configured without that developer letting me see their laptop, provided that, of course, my data collection script includes all the relevant parameters.
I agree with @Tensibai and rather using a tool I would suggest to talk with your team members about the tools they use rather than sniffing their system.