The same problem appears when the Windows installation on disk is configured for UEFI boot, but the repair process is attempted from commands stored on a USB drive which has been booted in non-UEFI ("legacy") mode.
An addition disk which I added weeks before had SCSI Device 0:0 and the Systemdrive was on 0:1. How this could happen, I dont know, but I suspect a Bug in Vsphere Web-Client. 
In that scenario (boot mode "legacy" and boot from Windows 8 installation USB drive), execution of bootrec /rebuildbcd fails with The requested system device cannot be found. And BCDBoot C:\Windows fails with Failure when attempting to copy boot files.
The original problem was "Error Code: 0xc0000034 - Boot Configuration Data file missing required information" in Windows 8, as discussed here.
So, imagine you have a bootable Windows 8 setup USB drive which cannot be booted in UEFI mode, but only in legacy mode. One might think that one can simply change the BIOS setting from UEFI boot to legacy boot. And, in fact, after this change the USB drive can be booted, and one can access the Windows command prompt, of course. However, in that situation one cannot "repair" the Windows installation on disk which has previously been installed and used in UEFI mode.
I've found in situations like these, that "EasyBCD" is really really helpful. I suggest you give that a whirl and see if it can't save ya.
The repair process started from there was successful in my case: BCDBoot C:\Windows then succeeded with Boot files successfully created.
Found my USB CD-ROM drive, put the real disk in there, and ran bootrec /fixmbr, bootrec /fixboot, and bootrec /rebuildbcd with no issues.  Windows then started fine, both from grub and when the secondary hard-drive was chosen from the bios boot list.
Boot a Windows 7 x64 install disc and launch Start Up repair, but cancel it before it starts trying to repair, you will see a link for Advanced Options, which will allow you to get to command prompt, you will need to make the 100MB partition active if you made the OS partition active by mistake.
Something tingly in the back of my head told me that non-standard procedure was going to cause headache, but I ignored it.
After an hour of forum searching, someone somewhere mentioned "don't use a bootable usb drive as the recovery environment will see that partition table and not the real one on the hard drive," or something to that effect.
Rebooting a Windows Server 2016 VM in VMware Esxi 6.5 failed with "OS not found". I suspected an update which got installed during shut down. I was not able to fix it with diskpart, bootrec, bcdedit and restore from Backup. 
I had a different cause of and solution to this issue.  In my case the problem was that I had used a Windows 7 Enterprise ISO to create a bootable usb flash drive with Unetbootin, per instructions here: http://www.webupd8.org/2010/10/create-bootable-windows-7-usb-drive.html.  Basically, the instructions say to format the usb drive with ntfs and use Unetbootin v494 (outdated) which still had the feature to allow you to use drives formatted with ntfs (this feature disappeared in later versions).