Use the first drive (which also has the OS files) for the web app and the second drive for MySQL so that I lower the access time.
DB access wouldn't necessarily be more performant, but the heart of this is the classic performance v. reliability trade-off with 2 disks.
I got a dedicated server (running Windows 2008 Standard Edtion) with two hard drives. I have a web app (written in ASP.NET) that should be running on this server, the web app uses MySQL which should also be running on the same server. Also there will be the user photos which reside in the same folder as the app folder. Most access will be to MySQL and the user photos.
How many page hits are you expecting per day? Have you actually measured the performance characteristics yet? The golden rule of optimization is "Measure, then do".
If you have stay with two separate drives though there are a couple of things that can improve database server performance:
Giving it its own drive may improve performance of the overall arrangement a bit, but you might also consider instead using the two drives as a RAID1 array to improve fault tolerance and therefore availability (this doesn't remove the need for backups though).
It wasn't clear whether your disks were of the same capacity. Consider a RAID 1 configuration where the disk is partitioned with those 2 partitions on it. 
I would go with 2nd Option too, but we had a bad experience with such option once, because when we had to change our ISP, the new ISP didnt provide us two drives, they only had single drive machines, so we were in trouble reorganizing everything. However most of machines are now available with SATA multiple connetors so now its no longer problem, but yes migration plan and growth plan must be considered before making difference. Our problem is now 7 years old, but yes we do plan.
Unless you have a small amount of RAM or the web server hosted parts of your application are very memory intensive (or you expect many concurrent connections so the small web server processes will multiply up to something large) then the only thing in that arrangement that will be imposing significant I/O load is the database.
So, is it better to use the second drive for both the app and MySQL data files so that I leave the first drive for the OS
Since the cost of a hardware RAID controller is too high for this project, I think it would be a fair guess that it is not mission critical. In that case, the load on the server probably isn't going to be high enough to justify obsessing over performance.