Check James Da Silva's book where he explains how he did The Dishwasher: Dead Samurai. It'll show you how KISS pretty much can solve this. The suggestion of using 3d or 2d skeletal animations are valid, and kinda in the same realm.
Is it better to just have the equipment sprite and animate it directly on code like rotating and translating (using something like tween on Flash)?
Whatever is the option on #1 question, you surely needs to use some kind of layer model to make this sprite or animation to starts closer to the player's view and later change to far away from player's view.
Let's say during one of the character's move he starts looking directly in front to the player's view but ends his movement showing his right side to the player (like if he swings his sword from one side to the other).
I know the question is quite long and difficult to understand. Let me know if you think it's better to have some drawings to try to explain which one and I'll try to do that.
I think it sounds like you are looking for a 2D skeletal animation system perhaps? I don't know of any off-the-shelf systems for that unfortunately, since it has been mostly superseded by the 3D-gfx-but-2D-game trend.
Let's consider a character move where he spins 360 degrees with his arms open. At the beginning of the animation, his right hand is close to the user's view and then, at the middle of the movement, this is probably behind the character's body on the animation.
I want to create a 2D game but I'd like to have the character to wear tons of different equipments on different combinations, like a RPG or something.
If we consider one part of the user, like his head for example, it starts in front and then turns left.
This is a great question but I think you've answered it yourself - you need a 2D bones system that supports bones changing layers, so different limbs can go behind and in front of each other as the character rotates. You will also need to draw your sprites from 4 or 8 angles (or however many you need). Depending on what skills are in your team it might be easier to create these assets in 3D and render them out from the angles you need.
So let's say the user changes his/her shoulders and pants, this must be shown to the player and all these different equipments must follow the different characters action (hitting, being hit, spelling magic, etc.).
As Zorba says, most retro games didn't do this specifically because you would need (with sprites) to have multi-frame animations for every single piece of equipment.