Of course this is application specific and needs an application which can use memcached. This won't help you to open a second instance of slack as a browser does not support using such a cache backend.
A simple alternative would be to run the application on the remote PC, possibly under a dedicated user account, and simply control it via RDP, VNC or whatever is convenient.
This will mostly depend what you are working on and what application you use. If you are running programs that requires a lot of processing time for a small data output, you could make them run on a server different from your computer to save time and ressources while you work on something else.
The downside is that if you need this memory for a long time, buying VM time is an expensive way to do it.  However accountants seem to sometimes prefer operational costs like rental, to capital costs like upgrades.
Ask IT to buy more RAM for your PC, and demonstrate the need using a screenshot of the app's usage in Task Manager.
IE a small instance like a C5.large has 4GB ram and 2 cores, and costs $2.04 USD a day for linux, or $4.26 USD a day for a windows install.   EBS disk space is an extra cost and scales linearly with GB allocated.
Another option is to temporarily deploy the application in an environment where ram can be scaled up or down easily.
For example many web applications can use RAM over the network by connecting to a memcached server. This will allow to store cache data (and other data which should be fast to access) on another computer with a lot of RAM. 
You can set up your system in this smaller size, and then when you want to go full noise, stop it, change the instance size, and run the software.
The example I have in mind is a server that tests my code every time I push a modification. The idea with such a solution is that it is limited to specific use cases.
https://www.ec2instances.info/  will help you pick a suitable size.  Note some locations cost more than others.  Singapore and Northern California are expensive.   However your VM costs nothing when its not running, other than disk storage costs.
However if you want to speed up the use of your computer, it is possible to externalize some of your applications to a remote server.