I returned the Microwave and replaced it with a different model. I now have no problems with my WiFi and the leak detector registers a very small reading around .03 mW.
I think InSSIDer will show you some channel power levels but what  I think you are looking for is a true spectrum analyzer. Using a SE you can see non-wifi interference like monitors, bluetooth, phones, microwaves, etc...  I have a leaky microwave at work that when used increases the channel utilization on CH11 to about 30%. So my wifi deployment current runs at about 20% utilization so when the microwave runs it jumps to over 50%.  What I was able to do in the interim was to move my devices closest to the break room off of channel 11.  I know this is not the best solution but it's only until we can get our facilities folks to install a newer commercial grade microwave in there.  BTW the one currently in there and leaking is commercial grade but might be too old or the shielding is just off.  
This was the solution to my WiFi problem going out when the Microwave was on. Leak detectors are not that expensive. It might be a good investment. They are making Microwaves cheap as heck now and they seem to have a lot of "door problems".
Or just make sure the back of your microwave is against a wall - preferably facing the opposite direction from your router. A wall or wooden partition between the two also helps, as does a fridge. Turning a toaster on at the same time as the microwave has even been known to help. The last thing I did was to place my router - a FritzBox - into a desk drawer. No more interference.
Replace the microwave owen immediatelly. Could be a coincidence of the frequencies, but most probably shields of your microvave owen are disconnected or not implemented at all. Therefore for example for people with heart clock (Artificial cardiac pacemaker) it could be very dangerous to be exposed to your microwave. 
As several have noted both the microwave and the WiFi operates at the same frequency band. Also Bluetooth is in the same frequency band. Microwave affects WiFi more than Bluetooth as Blutooth is designed to just send and then resend if it fails while WiFi is designed to wait until it is quiet so starting a microwave will cause the WiFi to stop and wait.
But replacing your microwave oven could have effect that it will emit different freqencies and will not interrupt your WiFi - as usual. I think your case is exceptional.
I had to replace my Microwave. The brand new one completely took out the 2.4g WiFi band  in my house when the oven was on. I have never had this problem before. I dug out my 30 year old microwave leak detector, and for the first time in 30 years, it registered a high reading around the door. I ordered a new electronic leak detector and I rechecked the Microwave. The federal limit is 5 mW at 2 inches from the Microwave. The leak detector registered a reading of 7 to 9+ (above 9 it shows OL for overload) at 2 places of the Microwave door. Also the door seemed very loose.