The specification states that the device supports IEEE802.3ab, which means that the Ethernet ports do support Gigabit Ethernet. The powerline transceivers, however, have a maximum rating of 500 Mbps in each direction (assuming full-duplex).
Of course, if you will use the Gigabit Powerline adapters, you will get a better performance but not 1/2 Gbps ;)
Guess it's possible e.g. a FastEthernet interface to actually operate faster than 100Mbit/sec but still use FastEthernet signaling/negotiation.  However, a Gigabit interface connected to it would negotiate down to FastEthernet, and still transmit at that maximum speed, so I don't know what is going on with that.  It's entirely possible the specs are incorrect or written by non-knowledgeable people.
Good answers by the other posters. Just an addition, in case you want to be happy with your device: to not buy the cheapest stuff. I tried several "value" manufacturers and even if they manage to give you acceptable performance under optimal circumstances, they will completely fail, when network conditions are not so fair, like when your washing machine is running, or you have to plug in your network device into an extension cable (maybe chained twice). Top manufacturers like Devolo (there may be others like AVM) really deliver way better results in real life conditions.
Basically, it equals the Ethernet speed plus overhead of Powerline modulation. For instance, the TP-Link TL-PA4010KIT (twin pack) can reach 45-60 Mbps Ethernet speed which varies with the power socket environment. Here you can see the difference between true Ethernet speed and declared one for earlier mentioned TP-Link adapters.
The AV200 vs AV500 and AV600 can reach the desired speeds in near perfect conditions. The fast ethernet 100M will reach around 180M on a AV500 segment. As posted earlier the speeds degrade very fast with interference and old wiring. TPlink and other mentioned products use the same chipset. So I am assuming it is the filters that probably giving superior performance in noisy environments. 
Note that the so-called "200 Mbps" powerline devices often have 100 Mbps Ethernet ports, and are therefore limited to 100 Mbps in each direction (which could sneakily be called 200 Mbps, in half-duplex). This would also be the case for the non-Gigabit version you refer to.
So maybe this adapter supports the Gigabit Ethernet signaling standard but just can't do the full 1000Mbit/sec over the link layer.
One advantage Gigabit Ethernet has even if you aren't getting a full 1000Mbit/sec is "jumbo frames" which increase LAN (not Internet, of course) speed by allowing bigger Ethernet frames (8000bytes instead of 1500bytes), which can mean a higher MTU, which means reduced packet header overhead.
Each of the standard Ethernet speeds, 10Mbit/sec, 100Mbit/sec (a.k.a. "FastEthernet"), and 1000Mbit/sec (a.k.a. "Gigabit Ethernet") have different signaling and negotiation methods.