Now, if you can not run autoruns that would be due to the virus already blocking it - however viruses will rarely do that.
It seems to be the BKA Trojan (the first couple of results are links to the scareware’s site, so don’t use those). It seems that the consensus is to either reinstall, or use more anti-malware software.
(Side note: I find it amusing that the trojan is using the Windows 7 logo even though the Alex has indicated that it is an XP system. sigh)
Another thing to try is to quickly look in the Task Manager’s Processes tab to try to figure out which process(es) the trojan is running from, and try to kill it (you don’t need to see it the Task Manager to kill it, you can type out the first several letters of the EXE name, and press Del, then Space), though make sure that the Task Manager’s Always-On-Top option is selected; just in case.
I know you don't want to do this, you would rather use a tool to fix the problem, but I think you'll save time by doing a clean install and you'll also know that the malware is really gone.
I've seen it happen time and time again where so many more hours are spent trying to remove viruses or malware than what it takes to simply backup, format and re-install.
Personally, I would backup the data and go for a fresh install. Once a malware was on a windows, there is no way to make sure all traces have been removed, because once they have a hold of your computer they will continue to try and use it / your data / your bank account. In cases like this, it seems to be usual to load more malware onto the computer. 
Oh, and dont pay. If you do, it might ask for admin permissions to "fix" your windows, and then rootkit you for good. 
Using these tools is not trivial (does require knowledge of the normal system behavior), but in case that
I propose you turn off the infected computer, remove the disk and copy the contents of the disk to some safe spot. Then you can also retry a virusscan while attached to a different computer (not booting this infected disk). 
This seems to be a brand new scareware. As far as I see, it has not been described by the antivirus specialists yet. It threatens to delete the contents of the disk and sue you for using an illegal copy of Windows. 
Users of this computer should change their passwords, if banking has been done, check their bank accounts and set a new PIN. 
As it's been said over and over again, the only sure-fire way to ensure that a virus is gone is to format your computer, and re-install things one by one.
This procedure is surprisingly efficient, but of course this is only due to viruses not targeting it. You can always try it.
That said, this isn't technically a virus, but a new kind of malware that makes you pay to remove it, which you should not do under any circumstances, because you're contributing to organised crime.
Re-installing should be a last resort; trying to remove it is better. The worst that can happen is that you end up re-installing anyway and “waste” some time learning some stuff.
You may just find that booting with something like an Ubuntu live CD to copy all data to a removable USB hard drive, then formatting the disk and re-installing is actually the fastest way to solve this problem.