htt://localhost/tins/csv_img_uploads/TFS_Jan_20018_001.jpg,htt://localhost/tins/csv_img_uploads/TFS_Jan_20018_001_zoom.jpg
Enter your formula in the first row, then drag down to fill the series by hovering over the lower right corner of the cell until the cursor changes to a "+" symbol. Or, if your data is in a table, it should autofill the series.
More generally, for how this comes up, one has some alphanumeric part number, maybe even obtuse like "AN34TDKH020" and needs to increment one or both numerical portions. The key then is "Is the pattern well behaved?" Do the first two characters remain the same? Is the second alpha portion always four characters and not sometimes two or eight? If that portion DOES move about on you, is the rest stable? As in that portion always starts at the 5th character and the final numerical part is always three digits long?
Given that letter characters have numerical values to computers (remember your CHAR() function), one can even increment letters n many circumstances though those often have meanings in part numbers that make incrementing, as such, a worthless endeavor.
Looking at your screenshot, it appears you just need one wee bit of extra for the formula (assuming you correct the other likely difficulties:  the "20018" likely should have just one zero (trivial) and the ":" and onwards after the ROWS() function looks to need a bit added).
Col D is formatted as "text", so it shows the actual digits you want to display, instead of changing "0001" to the number "1".
So "wrap it" in a TEXT() function and specify "000" as the number format it should return. Then you will get "001" and so on.
I want to increment only the number part (001) of a cell as i have to copy almost the same info to hundreds of cells.
Look for pattern stabilities like that, then apply LEFT(), MID(), and RIGHT() as needed to first pull out the portion you want to increment, increment it, put it back together and continue for any other portions until done incrementing and then stop, giving you the incremented result. Whatif can be applied as well as simple +1, +1, etc.
You could use a helper column. In the example below, I took your url and referenced my helper column (Col D). Then, you can just fill the series in the helper column and even hide it if you want.
ROWS(), as you are using it will produce the number series for you, of course. It's perfect as is and perfect for that purpose. However, it will produce "1" and "2" and so on, not "001" and "002" and so on.