In general, you should contact the copyright holder over these types of conditionally-free licenses, to verify that your planned usage is okay with them.  But in this specific case, it seems pretty clear to me that what you're trying to do is not allowed by FMOD's non-commercial license terms.
How far can I go in regard to monetizing my game without it being considered commercial ? Donations? Do ads count? Optional items purchase?
I am not a lawyer, and the comment that Chewy made about consulting a professional stands as very reasonable.
If you're looking to take a project out of the basement and start generating income from it, then the authors who have aided you by writing libraries deserve to be compensated.  If you've developed this program with the intention of selling it, then the clock's been ticking on this day.
    3. prepared, done, or acting with sole or chief emphasis on salability, profit, or success: a commercial product; 
For this discussion, I'd suggest that sales, ad revenue, donations, software in trade or any promises of future considerations all constitute acting commercially.
I don't have any budget to buy commercial licenses but the libraries I use offer non-commercial free licenses.
If you are pursuing revenue models, then your title is clearly intended for commercial gain, and you do not meet the criteria to use the FMOD non-commercial license.  You would need to purchase either the Commercial or the Casual licenses.
Since you asked here though, my opinion is that if you use the software on someone's behalf, and they compensate you to do so by any means then you have acted commercially.
It sounds like you're trying to "get around" licensing, which you just can't do.  Either license the product or use one of the (many available) free alternatives.
But you should really be asking them, not us.  FMOD has a team which handles licensing terms and interactions with developers.  You can reach them at sales@fmod.org.
The title of this question is an oxymoron.  Any revenue means your product is commercial.  If you don't want to pay licensing, you need to stick to free alternatives.  OpenAL is not that much harder to use than FMod and it is free.  There are plenty of free libraries like SDL that can help with a lot of the startup work.
If you're monetizing your game, via ads or in-game purchases, it will be considered commercial. I'd suggest using a library that allows commercial usage, there are plenty of free open-source libraries that fit the bill.