I'm pretty sure the director isn't hired to satisfy your needs, but the needs of the company in general.  The way that you've stated what you've stated is rubbing me the wrong way.
What COULD you do?  ANYTHING you do, tread VERY LIGHTLY.  I would suggest, if it bothers you as much as the guy I had to work for bothered me (but hopefully, the guy you're working for is less arrogant), you could talk to him.  NICELY.  "Mr. Smith, I was wondering... is there any plan to hire a more technically skilled person in the near future?  I'm concerned because, as you have expressed, your not as technically skilled as our previous director and we're having some difficulty keeping the level of service as strong as it was."
If he is arrogant, then I would suggest you start documenting EVERYTHING... because sometimes, people can get vengeful and documenting every move you make, while a pain and unpleasant, can help you keep your job if something happens later.  If nothing else, it helps you formulate your resume later because you can easily recall everything you did.
Anybody who does these two things will have a pleasant and fruitful career.  You're about to screw up number 1 big time!
So, you can be certain that when they all sit around talking management talk and sipping their Johnnie Walker Blue Label, they talk about these things. The IT director will mention that you seem to be a bit something-or-other out of sorts, and someone else will mention that oh yeah, maik was in here with this list of complaints, yadda yadda yadda, what are we gonna do about this...
At first I grated about the situation.  I complained to my other fulltime co-worker, with whom I had been friends for quite some time.  We talked about what to do to convince our ultimate superiors that this man had been the wrong choice.  Then we finally realized something: we had more technical freedom than ever.
At my old job, I too once thought as you do.  Our old director left to join a family business, and our new one was definitely not as advertised.  We were a 3 full-time, 2 part-time employee IT shop with about 25 servers and 250 workstations to support.  
So... the moral?  You have to let him dig his own grave.  If it's unbearable, leave.  If not, cross your fingers and try to stick it out.  
...and BAM!, maik is a complainer, not a team player, constantly questions management's decisions...
Well, you don't want to be on management's watch list. And whether you perceive it or not, the IT director is management.
You don't mention specifically what the new director is doing to be "more harm than good".  You also don't mention whether or not you've even spoken directly to this new director.  Could it be that management has hired an I.T. director with little to no I.T. experience?  It happens.  Is it good for I.T.?  It depends.  
Bottom line: give the guy more than two months, be a team player, and find ways to make this situation beneficial for everyone involved, including your new boss.  If they wanted your approval, you would have been part of the hiring process.
I'd either try to "take lemons and make lemonade" as we did, or consider another position for yourself.  If he's truly as bad as you say, then it will be exposed naturally.  Otherwise, you will be painted as a complainer, and you'll help get another man fired who, like you, is trying to make it through these tough times.
In all honesty, you don't sound like someone I'd like to work with.  Two months is not a tremendous amount of time to learn a new job, especially in light of "I find it hard to keep myself motivated when I'm constantly having to correct them or teach them how to do their job."  I would venture to guess that part of your job is training new employees.
Seriously, you'll do a lot more for your company, your new IT director, and yourself if you'll make the effort to help the person grow into this new position. It will pay off in the long run. It sounds like the person isn't incompetent, but just lacks certain skills. The skills can be learned, and it sounds like the director is at least trying to do that. Give the person a chance.
Then he left.  They promoted an internal person... but he stepped down after 6 months.  then for another 6 months, the two assistant directors (including the guy who stepped down) ran the department.  They finally hired another person who seemed ok... until he was fired (not sure why) about 6 weeks later.  Then another six months went by and they hired another guy... On paper, he looked great... in reality, well, we started referring to him as DH.  Not just me and a couple of other guys... but the ENTIRE department.  Not "designated hitter", but something similar to (but less kind than) "Department Head"... After 18 months I left.  I gave 3 weeks notice and once I did, he didn't say a word to me - not a good morning nor a goodnight and never asked me to do anything.  Under his watch, half the department left in 2 years.  He was finally removed (not sure the exact circumstance - some people say he was given a deadline to leave).  But he lasted there 4 years and, in my opinion (and most others who I knew who worked there), destroyed the department.
We took this opportunity to push forward with initiatives that we had long talked about implementing but never before had the influence to make happen.  Because we were so technically valuable to our new, but under-skilled boss, he was very willing to listen to our ideas and champion our causes.  In turn, we helped him increase his skillset dramatically, and by the time I left that job to move cross-country to be closer to family, he had grown into one of the best managers I've ever had.
...at best, it's a good excuse to not give you a raise one year, at worst, well, President Obama just extended unemployment benefits again...
First, a story.  Sometimes, you're just stuck.  That's what happened to me.  I worked in an IT department of 20 people.  Turnover had been, perhaps, 2 people per year.  But everyone enjoyed working there and the director was the kind of person who ASKED his subordinates for their opinions and, in fact, if I had an idea I thought could help the company, I could write up a proposal and bring it to him.  If he liked it, he'd try to get the money for it in the next budget year.  And helping the others in the department so that we each got some experience in another field - or few other areas - was common.
Perhaps they're filling a much needed business-end function that was missing in your previous director.  You probably aren't privy to all the management discussions affecting business.  All that you see is what affects you from the I.T. side of things.  Maybe this new director is good at translating business needs into technical solutions.