TPM (trusted platform module) is a standard that is usually implemented as a separated hardware module that can be used to generate crypto keys (among other things). It is not the same as UEFI (nor are they of related organizational groups); TPM is a hardware level crypto that is used for things like full disk encryption and DRM and has to be physically installed as a separate module (though many new PC/laptops/motherboards include the option to come pre-installed with a hardware TPM) where as UEFI sits between the hardware and the OS itself. Technically speaking, one could use UEFI (Secure boot) with a TPM. TPM's are manufactured by many different companies. UEFI is firmware that is 'manufactured' (coded) by a few companies as well.
One thing to note with ALL of these technologies is that at a software level, most of the 'secure' functionality needs to be implemented in order to be used. For instance, you could have a PC with a TPM and use TrueCrypt for full disk encryption (TrueCrypt does not support TPM). This is the same with ARM's TrustZone; the system/software integrator needs to take advantage of those capabilities for it to be effective/work (in other words, just because something is physically on your machine does not mean it's 'active').
I won't go into any controversies that surround UEFI, Secure boot or TPM in general (out of scope), so I'll try and answer as directly as possible. 
UEFI is (for all intents and purposes) a BIOS 'replacement' that sits at the BIOS level (between hardware and OS). UEFI Secure boot has to be supported by the firmware (BIOS); UEFI Secure boot is essentially a way to prevent 'unsigned' code from booting, as of right now Windows 8, Windows Server 2012 and certain Linux distributions have signed UEFI secure boot keys that are able to use the feature.
UEFI and TPM are (typically) found only on x86/x64 platforms (i.e. Intel/AMD/PPC CPU/chipsets). ARM (a competing CPU/chip maker to Intel and AMD) offers something similar to a UEFI/TPM setup and that's their TrustZone. TrustZone is something that is built into the ARM chips themselves it's slightly different in that UEFI is at the BIOS and TPM is 'baked' into hardware modules, but ARM's TrustZone can be utilized 'system wide'; the idea being that you have a mixture of UEFI/TPM type functionality in each device that has an ARM chipset in it (which could be anything from a keyboard/mouse to a monitor and printer).