First, Windows needs for your primary monitor to be on the left. Obviously you can switch this around (I've even seen them in the above/below configuration).
I think the problem begins with your setup and understanding of how Windows works with multiple monitors. I'm not saying it's right or wrong (or that you are), it's just the way it is.
I guess your only option left is to hope and wait for Windows 8. There is a reason there's custom software for this problem.
As a triple screen monitor user, with a  [3][1][2] configuration, I've hit this same problem. Unfortunately, windows actually is that stupid. It defines the left edge of the wallpaper as the left edge of the primary monitor, regardless of how you tell Windows how the monitors are positioned. That screen is only useful for determining how the mouse travels between screens.
It also has an option to create a Panorama, which makes this all a bit easier, since it will join your two halves back into a whole.
Now, when you tile, they will show what you have, but since your monitors are set up "backwards" (according to Windows), the wallpaper will appear properly.
You should find your background is now properly scaled to the primary monitor and you can then set how the background should scale in the Personalize > Desktop Backgrounds option screen.
I right-clicked the desktop and selected Screen Resolution then on the dialog window that appears I clicked on the checkbox option labelled "Make this your main display".
I had this very issue today but rather than downloading a 3rd-Party app I wanted to give this a go see if I could resolve it.
By stating you want Windows to get it right itself you dismiss both a) custom software and b) the option of taking the 20 seconds to swap the halves of the image in a basic image editor.
I did the above for the primary display and this fixed the scaling problem if you already have set it to the primary display then make the second screen the primary and switch back again.
I don't have two monitors but i know a friend that use Dual Monitor Tools. Is a suite of individual apps, you load only the ones you need. The suite currently includes four applications Swap Screen, Dual Wallpaper, DisMon, and Dual Swap. I'm not sure if it is what you need but is free. 
What you will need to do is take your current dual-screen wallpaper and cut it exactly in half. Then you need to join those two halves BACKWARDS, ie... the left is what you would normally expect on the right, & vice versa.