Of course you can also see some "empirical evidence" for $P \neq NP$  in the fact that people have been trying to solve optimization problems, cryptoanalyze encryptions, etc.. and haven't been successful so far...
Such conjecture can result in a refutable prediction that any natural system that will try to solve this will fail (e.g., get stuck in a local minima), something you can verify with experiments. Indeed, I'm not an expert on this but to my knowledge, as Joe Fitzsimons mentioned, such predictions had been confirmed with Adiabatic computing. (Scott Aaronson also had some entertaining experiments with soap bubbles.) 
Anyway, besides this point, the assumption is a statement of the form "there is no real world procedure that does ..." How does one design an experiment to refute such a statement? If the assumption was something like "If we do X in the real world, Y happens," then this can be refuted by performing X. The statement that we want asserts the non-existence of something, so I can't see an experiment deciding it. It could be shown as a physical consequence of the laws of physics, but this is even harder than P vs NP, because a Turing machine does follow the laws of physics. Since we've been unsuccessful even at showing that TMs cannot solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time, it seems completely hopeless to show that no physical process can solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time.
Not as far as I know.  However, one could get numerical evidence against $NP \subseteq P/poly$ of a similar sort of that found for the Riemann Hypothesis or Goldbach conjecture, by using explicit computations to show that, say, SAT up to length 10 does not have circuits of size 20 (where you let the values of 10 and 20 vary).  This still runs into the same issue raised in the other answers -- finite evidence cannot give us an asymptotic answer. But essentially the same issue is true for the current "evidence" for the Riemann Hypothesis.
Now, finding a minimum circuit for SAT up to length 10 is currently very difficult.  However, some of the ideas in geometric complexity theory allow you to get similar results with a more efficient (I think only exponential instead of doubly-exponential) computational search.  One of Mulmuley's conjectures is that in fact this search can be done in polynomial time, but we are a long way from proving anything close to that.
Natural Hamiltonians are a little softer, however, than some of the artificial ones used to prove QMA completeness (which tend not to mirror natural interactions), but even when we restrict to natural two-body interactions on simple systems the result is still an NP-complete problem. Indeed, this forms the basis of an approach attempted to tackling NP problems using adiabatic quantum computing. Unfortunately it appears that this approach will not work for NP-complete problems, due to a rather technical issue to do with the energy level structure. This does however lead to an interesting consequence of there existing problems within NP which are not efficiently solvable by nature (by which I mean physical processes). It means that there exist systems which cannot cool efficiently. That is to say, it seems you can construct a physical system which takes exponentially long in the size of the system to come into thermal equilibrium with the environment. 
The definitions of "polynomial time" and "exponential time" describe the limiting behavior of the running time as the input size grows to infinity.  On the other hand, any physical experiment necessarily considers only inputs of bounded size.  Thus, there is absolutely no way to determine experimentally whether a given algorithm runs in polynomial time, exponential time, or something else.
The real world is a constant-sized object, so there's no way to rule out a polynomial-time real world procedure to solve NP-complete problems that have a huge constant hidden in the big O notation.
I don't think that the fact that $P\neq NP$ is an asymptotic statement is an automatic "dealbreaker". One can make concrete conjectures that are consistent with our knowledge but stronger than P vs NP such as "It takes at least $2^{n/10}$ steps to find a satisfying assignment for a random n variable 10SAT formula" (with "random" being e.g., the planted model of Achlioptas Coja-Oghlan, this is just an example - I don't know what are reasonable concrete numbers offhand). 
Let me start out by saying that I agree completely with Robin. As regards the protein folding, there is a small issue. As with all such systems, protein folding can get stuck in local minima, which is something you seem to be neglecting. The more general problem is simply finding the ground state of some Hamiltonian. Actually, even if we consider only spins (i.e. qubits) this problem is complete for QMA. 