In my case, it was "KasperSky". My license got expired and I renewed it from the KasperSky app. Guess something got messed up with that. I uninstalled and re-installed KasperSky and my system was back to normal!
My system now works just like it's supposed to, going to half-speed and utilization when I overwork and thus overheat the CPU but it cools quickly and returns to normal speed after any such processor intensive work.
aspnet_state, BitLocker Drive Encryption Service, Connected Device Platform Service, Fax, InstallDriver Table Manager, Net.Tcp, XboxNetApiSvc, RemoteRegistry, Routing and Remote Access, Smart Card, Smart Card Device Enumeration Service, Smart Card Removal Policy, XblGameSave, XblAuthManager
thanks for your answers, guys, but the solution was actually something else. Turned out that the task "system and compressed memory" is not actually run by windows, but run by some malware which disguises itself as windows. I reset my PC completely, and now it's running fine again. 
And restart you computer. I do this on all my computers fast or slow and it help somewhat for me. Windows do a lot of unnecessary things in the bakground that steal performans when you play or do some work.
In researching my "slow CPU" problem I found many others with Windows 10 having similar problems. Mine- and I believe many others- was thermal related.
• Next step is to turn off services you don't need. To do this go again to Task Manager and then services and after that open services. 
Then there is a lot of services you can change to manual. But i'm sure you find em by your self. Windows give you a description too what the service do.
The "normal" description for this problem- besides all the errors caused by the CPUs slow operation- is, when looking at the performance tab in Task Manager, the CPU Utilization is less than 50% AND the CPU is running at about 50% of its Base Speed. You can probably check to see if your system has this same "thermal fault" by turning off your computer for 15 minutes or so to let it cool down and when booted back up, looking at task manager- first- to see if the CPU will run at higher than 50% Utilization and Base Speed. (You may need to run an application or two while looking at the performance tab just to get the CPU cranked up to a higher speed and utilization).
You can find many tips searching on the Internet for things to do to help this heat problem, so I won't go into any more here. Just don't make any changes that have Windows ignore the overheating- the system will begin to shut down on its own and you risk destruction of your CPU and more.
If you have confirmed that you have high page faults, now we need to find out which application is causing it. Follow the below listed steps.
This seems to be a fine safety feature when it works properly but clogged air vents, failed fans, abundant Registry entries and too many apps running at the same time (check your bloatware) overloading the CPU can prevent a cooler operation of the CPU. Anything that could prevent your CPU from cooling off should be checked. Additionally, I placed Furniture Caster Cups under the rubber "feet" of my laptop in order to raise it higher off the desk and allow for more cool air to get to the underside.
in the new window that you see go to services and press Hide all Microsoft services. After that just uncheck all services you see. 
If your CPU- now cooled off- runs at its rated speed but soon drops to the 50% levels as you monitor the performance tab in Task Manager, there is a good chance that your problem is thermal related. Windows 10 apparently responds to overheat notices from the CPU and will, in fact, toggle the CPU from its rated speed and utilization to half or less, then back to normal as the CPU cools down. If your CPU can't cool down enough after some processor intensive operations, Windows will keep the CPUs performance at half levels.
I had the same problem but the solution was different. My CPU, Memory usage and everything looked normal but it seems my system had high page faults which was slowing down the entire system.  To check if this is a problem in your system
You don't need it. If your computer need a software to start when you you start your computer it will start. Trust me. So when you are in task manager go to startup and disable all. 