The dampness issue you are likely going to need a dehumidifier for and I don't see much of a way around that with you having to invest more money in insuring the shed is weather sealed and even then it might be hit or miss.
I was then thinking that I could take the hot water from this and put it into a radiator to try and keep the ambient temperature up. I could even try and get some high demand jobs to run when the temperature dips. 
Cold - repeatedly starting a PC from cold (-5) as mentioned is going to cause a lot of wear, my soloution was to keep the heating in the building on low when it was unoccupied installing insulation will save on your heating bill.
If you leave your machines on most of the time the cold wont be an issue and possibly a benefit as it would prevent overheating and nighttime condensation.
As it turns out, I live in a New England state where it can get pretty cold doing the winter and I tend to keep the heat turned a bit lower as well, so speaking from a bit of experience, my fairly powerful computer only outputs enough heat to raise the temperature in a 250 sq ft (23 sq meters) room about 1 degree Fahrenheit (about half a degree centigrade). So a space heater would be highly recommended during the winter. Getting a new window might help to retain the heat a bit better as it appears that the one in the picture is single pane. Likewise, it looks like the roof would be a major cause of loss of heat so you might want to see if there is some way that you can upgrade that as well.
Insulate the shed and make it weather tight. Invest in a small heater and AC. If you would not want to live there 24/7, then neither will your PC equipment. OK the last is a slight exaggeration. Your PC will be OK over a wider temperature range then you would, but you get the idea.
Humidity + Components - as dss_so mentioned the components won't stand up to the cold and damp. I have used a small chemical de-humidifier placed in the bottom of a sufficently large case which seems to have had its effect, it does fill with water quickly so be careful moving the computer around.
Unfortunatly I have had experience of keeping computers in cold and damp churches, and it isn't a pleasant story. 
I was thinking that I could use liquid cooling for the components of the PC, this would stop hot air being blown around the case and condensing on any cold surfaces. I believe that you can attach this to most of the hot components in your system (not sure about the HDDs though).
Humitidy + Dust - any dust that gets into your computer will turn into mud and after a while the fans get gunked up, which seems to affect the power supply quite profoundly (3 PSUs in 2 years), the other fans will get louder and less effective. The soloution is to install filters on all of the fans, keep the surrounding area clear of dust as far as possible and clean out the inside more reguarly than a normal PC. 