For example, if a machine (physical or virtual) is hosting a website, and that is the only thing from the box that is open to the outside world, and there is sloppy development which has meant there is a security hole, it could be abused on either target.
1) AVG doesn't come with Windows. At first I thought this may be a reference to some form of memory protection method for scrambling where executable code is located in memory to prevent overflows from targeting specific known executable locations for gaining access to systems, as the acronym is eluding me at the moment, but Google is only showing the antivirus. AVG is a commercial product.
I'm contemplating the fact about using a virtual machine to "sandbox" servers and programs on my computer.  I heard that Virtual Machines can be hacked into,; a simple google search of "virtual machine security"; millions of results appear.
As for security issues, I've not read directly of anything that will "break out" of a VM and attack other VM's, at least not anything that wouldn't do the same thing with the same methods as a physical network client attacking other physical network clients.
Safe compared to what? Compared to running your different environments on separate physical hardware, VMs are not as safe, but that would be fantastically expensive. Compared to running your environments as different processes in the same instance of the OS, which is the practical alternative, VMs are pretty safe.
The only difference I can think of with a virtual machine is that if the Hypervisor/virtualistion software contains an API that is accessible from the guest/virtual OS, it may be possible to do "funky" stuff, but, if an attacker gets this far and it was a physical machine, you have most likely already lost the box anyway.
I know that pretty much anything can be hacked but why would Amazon use virtual machines instead of something else if they have security issues, especially if the virtual machine can "break" out of itself and infect other machines.  Sure, Windows Server 2008 comes with AVG but apparently there is an easy way to bypass that.
I think that you might be jumping the gun with your conclusion and may want to delve a little deeper into what exactly the security issues are with VM's. Amazon uses VM's because they are far far far simpler to manage and dynamically create/destroy as load necessitates.
2) Virtual machines are as secure as a LAN of physical computers. VM's also have a huge number of advantages for redundancy and load balancing and creating and managing a large number of systems without the added overhead of power and resource consumption that physical machines use. 