Personally, if you can get away with it, I'd be in favor of option #2 as its WAY easier to maintain a single wildcard cert than it is to mess around with lots of multiple certs.
We now have a desired business use of the exact same application where by it would be accessed via the URL http://www.qwert.com, and of course, have a secure portion accessed as https://www.qwert.com.
I currently don't know of any SSL issuer that does this type of thing.  You might be able to get away with self-signed certs... but then your browser is going to start complaining... so that's no good.
Looking here may help you start down the road you want to go: http://rrr.thetruth.de/2008/04/openssl-certificates-with-multiple-domains-common-names/
This poses a problem because my certificate has been issued for *.abcde.com. According to Ken Schaefer, it's possible to generate a CSR with multiple CNs.
As I was reading your question my initial thought was to "wildcard SSL certificates" but that's not what you're trying to do... you're trying to use MULTIPLE DOMAINS under the same SSL.
We have a e-commerce application that runs a under the URL http://www.abcde.com. The application also has a secured portion, accessed as https://www.abcde.com. This is a very normal setup, with the exception of using a SSL wildcard certificate (*.abcde.com) because the sub-domain may vary depending on business use of this app. This sub-domain/domain name variance of the application has to do with customizing it's look-and-feel and transaction-cut percentage for selected partners of ours.
Have you heard of multiple CNs in a cert? Do you know how to create a CSR for this? And will any certificate vendor fulfill a request like this?
Every SSL certificate is going to require a separate IP address (assuming you want to run default port for these).
Ultimately, it is up to the policy of the CA to decide which fields to consume from your CSR. Many take the CN. Or one of them.
Why do others not? They want your money. So Microsoft and at least three CA's invented a new way to take your money by reusing exploiting existing technology with new rules. These are the UC Certificates linked to by IceMage.
Usually, multiple domains are added to the same Certificate under subjectAlternativeName headers, not common name. CACert allows you to submit CSR's with many SAN's.
What I want to know is can I build a certificate request or find a certificate provider that will issue a certificate with multiple CNs (Common Names) such that secure access to https://www.abcde.com -or- https://www.qwert.com doesn't appear to the browser to be mismatched to the CN in the SSL certificate?
I think your best/only real option here is to have a separate SSL certificate for every unique domain name but this poses another issue.