If I understood well, you need a sort of check list and that seems like a good starting point. There are many suggested ones you can dig out using Internet, but I prefer this one. Along with the auditing topics, you can find additional ones that will be required in time, too
That said, there are plenty of checklists out there if you look.  But the primary goal of this effort should be to surface as many issues as possible, prioritize them, and develop action plans for remediation.  I wouldn't be too concerned about being "prepared".  Since you have started recently, there should be an understanding that the place didn't fall apart overnight.  
I recommend you to spent some time reading COBIT, that is Control OBjectives for IT. In fact it's used by many auditing companies to audit IT area.
If the network that you acknowledge is in need of improvement receives a good report, that would probably be a waste of the company's money.
I also recommend you to use tools such as nessus (that will check your network/servers for vulnerabilities) or mbsa (microsoft baseline security analyser), but it will only check windows hardware.
It isn't practical to go to each machine to make sure its fully updated.   This is why OpenVAS exists(OpenVAS is the new free version of Nessus).    You can tell OpenVAS to scan every machine on your internal network to identify problem areas.  You also need to run it remotely to get an idea of your remote attack surface.  You will find problems with your firewall rule sets and machines that are vulnerable to attack.
That is disappointing.  I did this for quite a few years, and it was common practice for us to provide a detailed overview of what would be assessed and why (methodology).  We submitted formal requests for information, provided tools for the IT staff to run and collect data, including any potential impact of the collection process (if any).  We also had to schedule meetings complete with detailed agendas, which usually meant they knew what to expect.  There's no constructive purpose served in sandbagging someone in an initiative like this. Issues are usually aplenty, and most IT staff are open to discussing them if the engagement is kicked off properly.