Talk to the engineering team and ask what they've worked on in the past year.  Push for how they source and prioritize projects.  You'll likely be in a very similar boat.
Everyone wants to do well in business, but the people I've loved doing data work for are ones who are eager to learn what's going on with their business and how to please customers better.  The ones I've dreaded working for want to brag about KPIs and stock prices.  The former will be patient as you get your sea-legs in a new org.
Ask during the interview process what they hope you'll accomplish in the first 3-6 months.  If they have a solid list of deliverables, that's a good sign.  If that list is something you're comfortable with even better.  
You're just riffing to see their reaction.  Are they nodding reverently like you're speaking Latin, it sounds impressive but they don't follow?  Are they pushing for faster turnaround and guaranteed results?  Are they asking insightful questions (eg Can you really get an integration up in 2 days?)
Ask "why?" a lot.  In the interview/early days you're understandably naive, so you can say oh, why is that important? and it's interpreted as I'm trying to learn about our business.  If their assumptions show some thought and understanding, even if you don't fully agree, that's a great sign.
Ask how those projects will help with their overall goal.  What is their overall goal?  We want to be a $1B company is a terrible goal.
But if your manager-to-be has no good answers to those questions: walk.  There are plenty of places hiring.  
People want to know what you have actually done, indipendently from the algorithms or procedures you have used.
I tell you what has worked for me: practical examples. They have probably already read about what data science is in general and which are the standard procedures. What they have not seen is someone in front of them explaining how innovative (and useful for business!!!) the data science really is. Follow the "Say what you would say to your granny to tell her how cool your work is" advice.
Our CEO (and full exec team) was used to Wired article headlines and viewed any test with <30% conversion boost as "failure".  My team was expected to do needlessly complex analyses because one of their friends had forwarded a click-bait article about "growth hacking".
I have not worked as a data scientist.  But managing expectations is something we've all done. Considering you're referring to the company CEO, tact is especially required.  There are three practices that have helped me a lot over the years:
If they're engaged and interested, then you've found a good partner.  Otherwise consider how much you're willing to invest on education/management.
You have their list of ideas and some reasons they're important.  Put together a rough draft plan of how you'd attack them.  Don't get too in the weeds, just list the strategic goal, the data you'll need, the method you'll start with, what you hope to find and a rough time estimate.