Using distance squared is almost always just fine and good for performance. The following considerations are important:
If you want to think about the sum of a number of distances, distance squared will be inaccurate. For instance, I have two distances and I want to make sure their sum is less than 10. The following code is  incorrect:
There's no disadvantage I'm aware of when using squared length to compare distances. Think about it like that: You're just skipping the sqrt which doesn't give you any additional accuracy. If you don't need the actual Euclidean distance, then you can safely leave the sqrt out.
You may run into trouble if you're writing an algorithm which requires that you compute an optimized position.  For example, let's say you had a set of objects, and you were trying to compute the position with the smallest total distance from all of the objects.  Just for a concrete example, say we're trying to power three buildings, and we want to figure out where the power plant should go so that we can connect it to all the buildings using the smallest total length of wire.  Using the distance squared metric, you would end up with the x-coordinate of the power plant being the average of the x-coordinates of all the buildings (and analogously for the y-coordinate).  Using the ordinary distance metric, the solution would be different, and often very far off from the distance squared solution.
Of course the squared length scales quite differently than the Euclidean distance and is therefore a bad candidate for things like pathfinding heuristics.
One time I was working in square distances, and made the mistake of accumulating squared distances, for an odometer count.
Another consideration: for real-valued distances, distance squared will always be positive. If you're measuring displacement for instance, you may need to deal with negative values, and squaring them will not do.
It fails to assert in the following invalid case: a=36 and b=49. In this case, the first length is 6 and the second 7; their sum is greater than 10, but the sum of the squares is not 100 or greater.