Accumulation has a great answer on how you can come up with more examples explaining the importance of precision over recall and vice versa.  
Let us say that a machine learning model is created to predict whether a certain day is a good day to launch satellites or not based on the weather.  
Thus, precision will be more important than recall when the cost of acting is high, but the cost of not acting is low. Note that this is the costs of acting/not acting per candidate, not "cost of having any action at all" versus "cost of not having any action at all". In the apple example, it's the cost of buying/not buying a particular apple, not the cost of buying some apples versus the cost of not buying any apples; the cost of not buying a particular apple is low because there are lots of other apples. Since the cost of buying a bad apple is high, but the cost of passing up a particular good apple is low, precision is more important in that example. Another examples would be hiring when there's a lot of similar candidates.
F1 is great but understanding how the test/prediction will be used is really important, because there's always some risk of being wrong...you want to know how dire the consequences will be if wrong.
Can anyone give me some examples where precision is important and some examples where recall is important ?
Precision tends to involve direct costs; the more false positives you have, the more cost per true positive you have. If your costs are low, then precision doesn't matter as much. For instance, if you have 1M email addresses, and it will cost $10 to send an email to all of them, it's probably not worth your time to try to identify the people most likely to respond, rather just spamming all of them.
One should be okay if a spam email (positive case) left undetected and doesn't go to spam folder but, if an email is good (negative), then it must not go to spam folder. i.e. Precison is more important. (If model predicts something positive (i.e. spam), it better be spam. else, you may miss important emails).
-The number of opportunities is small (if there were only 10 good apples, then you would be unlikely to find 5 good ones with a recall rate of only 20%)
Most of the other answers make a compelling case for the importance of recall so I thought I'd give an example on the importance of precision. This is a completely hypothetical example but it makes the case.   
With a pregnancy test, the test manufacturer needs to be sure that a positive result means the woman is really pregnant. People might react to a positive test by suddenly getting married or buying a house (if many consumers got false positives and suffered huge costs for no reason, the test manufacturer would lack customers). I got a false negative pregnancy test once, and it just meant it took a few more weeks before I found out I was pregnant...the truth ultimately became apPARENT. (Pun intended.)
-There are significant differences between opportunities (if some apples are better than others, then a recall rate of 20% is enough to get 5 good apples, but they aren't necessarily going to be the best apples)
Recall is more important than precision when the cost of acting is low, but the opportunity cost of passing up on a candidate is high. There's the spam example I gave earlier (the cost of missing out on an email address isn't high, but the cost of sending out an email to someone who doesn't respond is even lower), and another example would be identifying candidates for the flu shot: give the flu shot to someone who doesn't need it, and it costs a few dollars, don't give it to someone who does need it, and they could die. Because of this, health care plans will generally offer the flu shot to everyone, disregarding precision entirely.
Recall, on the other had, tends to involve opportunity costs; you are giving up opportunities every time you have a false negative. So recall is least important when the marginal value of additional correct identification is small, e.g. there are multiple opportunities, there is little different between them, and only a limited number can be pursued. For instance, suppose you want to buy an apple. There are 100 apples at the store, and 10 of them are bad. If you have a method of distinguishing bad apples that misses 80% of good ones, then you will identify about 18 good apples. Normally, a recall of 20% would be terrible, but if you only want 5 apples, then missing those other 72 apples doesn't really matter.
I had a tough time remembering the difference between precision and recall, until I came up with this mnemonic for myself: 
Now picture a call center for insurance claims. Most fraudulent claims are phoned in on Mondays, after the fraudsters connect with collaborators and craft their made-up stories ("let's say the car was stolen") over the weekend. What's the best thing for an insurance company to do on Mondays? Maybe they should tune to favor recall over precision. It is far better to flag more claims as positive (likely fraud) for further investigation than to miss some of the fraud and pay out cash that should have never been paid. A false positive (flagged for additional scrutiny as possibly fraud, but the customer loss was real) can likely be cleared up by assigning an experienced adjustor, who can insist on a police report, request building security video, etc. A false negative (accepting a fraudster's false claim and paying out in cash) is pure loss to the insurance company, and encourages more fraud.
-The marginal benefit of opportunities remains high, even for a large number of opportunities. For instance, while most shoppers won't have much benefit from more than 18 good apples, the store would like to have more than 18 apples to sell.