Looking through the web server logs, there are no requests being logged. Looking at the HTTPERR log, I can see NotFound errors being logged, but the documentation that I have looked at (https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/820729/error-logging-in-http-apis) doesn't list NotFound as a supported error reason. 
From the details in your question alone I can't deduce what could be causing such queries. Could there be something between the browser and the IIS? 
The app is a vanilla ASP.NET MVC application based on .NET Framework 4.6.2; I have tried placing an empty index.html in the application root folder and setting it as the default document, but that doesn't work either.
The logged path is always the one from the actual HTTP request, never a resulting path i.e. HTTP path after the rewrite or real filesystem path. This part of your log line is completely normal.
Two things are puzzling me from that log entry - why does it give the HTTP version as 0.9 instead of 1.1 or 2.0 as I would expect, and why does give the path as / instead of e.g.  /index.html  or /home/index as I would expect?
I am setting up a server with Windows Server 2016 for the first time, and when creating a new IIS website, I am finding that all requests return 404 Not Found.
It sounds like you have a host name configured and are trying to access the website by IP address. How do you have your binding configured? 
From the log entry you posted, it looks like you are connecting directly to the server from a client machine in the same network. Are you trying to connect to the website by IP address or DNS name?
The HTTP/0.9 is just a result of a (either malformed or ancient) very simple GET / request without the HTTP/version part and additional request lines: the HTTP 0.9 was a one-liner protocol without any headers, including the Host: introduced in the HTTP 1.1 standard. The lack of Host: header means that the Default Web Site gets used instead of the binding your actual site has. If the default web site doesn't have index, the 404 - Not found may have been caused by that.