A 2-year degree would probably give you more direct experience with system/network administration, but may limit you in the long-term.
I have a B.S. in computer science and it has opened doors that would not be available otherwise.  Several employers have hired me on as a programmer and when they found I could also manage systems and networks started having me do that instead.  I would look to at least complete a B.S. before entering the field full time.  That being said I didn't learn much about networks or system administration from completing my degree.  Get an internship play with systems. Set up your own home networks.  Host your own web site.
Beyond that, I would ignore the certifications for now.  The CompTIA certs have little value and most employers are going to ignore any certifications unless you have the experience to back them up (which you don't right now).
IMHO, Any CompTIA certification is good if you want to work for the Geek Squad at Best Buy. If, on the other hand, you want to work in the IT field then my suggestion would be to look into Cisco and Microsoft certifications while pursuing a college degree in the computer sciences. You can do all of this while looking for an entry level job in the IT field doing tech support, etc. in order to build up a base of experience.
Also, don't go getting a ton of certifications until you have a career path lined up. There's no point spending hundreds (or thousands) of dollars getting your CCNA, CCNE, or whatever, when there's still potential you'll never use them.  Not sure you wanna be a Windows Admin? Why waste time, energy, and money getting an MCP certification?  
In either case, while you are going to school, take any opportunity you can to work in the IT field.  This can either be through internships, student jobs or part-time jobs.  Sure, you might be working help desk or desktop support but it gives you the experience and contacts you need to break in to the field.
A 4-year degree will open more doors to you in the long term, but you are going to need to get your hands on experience on your own for the most part.
A lot of people bash college for IT geeks, but you learn a lot in those 4 years, and 99% of it takes place outside the classroom.  Colleges are one big business, at their lowest levels.  And spending time fighting through the bureaucracy of a college is a hell of a way to prep for the bureaucracy of just about any company.  You learn patience, you make contacts, build relationships with peers in your field (which are some of the most valuable things ANY geek can have), and generally it gives you a few years to "season" yourself and really figure out what you want to do.  Trying to jump straight out of high school and into a career is NOT normal, it only happens in extraordinary circumstances, and odds are, you don't fit the profile (but maybe you do).
Also, as was pointed out elsewhere here, Internships are some of the best ways to test the waters of a particular field, build industry contacts, and find permanent jobs.  Colleges (at least the ones worth going to) and clubs at colleges, host job fairs regularly. Impress a recruiter there, and you might get an interview.  Impress people there, and you got an internship.  Companies send recruiters there to look for POTENTIAL, not for experience.
Find local computer places ISPs, large companies, IT Consulting, whatever. Put your resume together with an objective that you're looking for an Internship. Start sending it to as many places as possible (99% will pitch it; you're look for that other 1%).
All those "crap classes" you take in college?  English, Management, Economics?  Do I use that stuff day to day in my SysAdmin job?  Nope.  Am I thankful I have SOME understanding of stuff so i can hold a conversation on any range of topics with my manager, my director, my EVP/CIO, or the CEO?  Yes. Having a mature personality goes a long way towards getting your foot in the door for interviews, jobs, and promotions.  Think you have a personality now? So did I, when I was a freshman in college.  Now I look back at that terrified, uneducated twerp I was, and appreciate that 5 years I spent deciding where I want to be and taking the time to get my education.
I can't recommend highly enough that you continue to go to school.  Sure it doesn't apply directly to working as a system administrator, but it does help in lieu of experience.  Additionally, many companies aren't going to even consider you unless you have a degree.