In order to use NTFS encryption, right click on any file or folder and view Properties. On the first screen that comes up, press "Advanced" and then check the box saying "Encrypt contents to secure data" and wait for the action to complete.
If you only want to encrypt part of a partition I recommend EFS. I don't know what happened to that guy's files (I don't think he does either), but MS is usually good with backwards compatibility and I don't see version changes in EFS breaking his ability to read his own files.
EFS is not unreliable.  The biggest problem with EFS is that people forget that it's there, and then do something like re-install their OS, or take a drive and move it to another computer.  Then they want to try and recover their files, but since they didn't bother saving a copy of their keys... no can do (which is a good thing, because if you can't recover your files without a key, nobody else can either).
When another user (even an Administrator) attempts to open your file, they will be prompted for your username and password. If they are unable to provide those login credentials, they will be unable to reconstruct the AES-128 bit key, and hence they will be unable to view your files. Similarly someone who obtains a forensic image of your drive will be unable to reconstruct the files without having access to your login credentials.
Bitlocker is (kind of) a nickname for Bitlocker Drive Encryption. It works only on whole partitions.
NTFS encryption works by applying applying AES-128 encryption to the file whilst it lives on the disk, with the key derived from your login credentials. When you double click the file, Windows automatically decrypts the file for your applications, and the data is automatically re-encrypted into the file when the application saves.
But if what you really want, is just to make, say, all of the files within C:\Users\Me\MyDocuments encrypted to your login - your best bet is NTFS encryption.
There is another built in feature called Encrypting File System which you can use. It will encrypt the contents of a file or folder for you. The encryption is locked to your Windows user account and can only be decrypted with your Windows credentials. This feature has been available since XP.
The Pre-boot Authentication module is automatically installed on the drive to which the OS boots, but you don't actually have to apply Whole Disk Encryption to any drive if you don't want to.
FREE CompuSec includes several other encryption utilities: Voice encryption, encryption of individual files, removable media -- CDs, DVDs, USB thumb drives, and "Container" encryption (similar to TrueCrypt volumes).
As long as you keep your key safe and secure it's perfectly reliable and does what you're looking for. 
FREE CompuSec is specifically designed to protect desktops and notebooks, using pre-boot authentication and full hard disk encryption. Access control requires you to enter your userID and password before the system will boot up. Free CompuSec is free for both personal and business use.
If you want to encrypt a full partition, your two best choices are really BitLocker and TrueCrypt, as have been already mentioned in other questions.
Still, if you're determined to not use EFS, then there are already a lot of options presented here.  Another option is that you can create a Virtual Hard Disk on your hard drive, mount it in Windows and then turn on Bitlocker for the VHD. 
AEScrypt is a simple program that adds a context menu item in the file system context menu. There is no program window as you have for most programs.
You simply right-click the file you want to encrypt or decrypt in the file listing, select the AES Crypt item, and enter your password in a little dialog box. A new encrypted or decrypted version of the file is created. In the case shown, the file name will be Bootstrap.kdbx.aes.
Generally speaking, tools tend to either encrypt partitions (i.e. continuous section of disk space comprising of multiple files, folders and meta data) or files.
You can find horror stories about anything on the web.  There are tons of them about Windows 8 already.  Most people just do not have problems, and when they do... it's usually their own fault.