I applied some of the companies in the industry for internship and so but most of them wants experience and some work in game developing. Many asks whether I developed a simple game or something similar which I haven't done so far.
As a developer, I had been making simple games, demos and experiments since I was 5 until I was 22 and finally started my company. When hiring people, not having anything to show was a red flag for me.
Please don't take this the wrong way, I'm not picking on you - on the contrary, I'm trying to help you. How/why do you know this is really what you want to do, if you don't have enough passion to do it just for fun?
I currently study computer engineering and I want to lead my career towards game industry which I always want to be a part of.
If you're sure that's the direction you want to take your career, I wonder why you haven't done a simple game or demo.
Hang around in the right places. Make your name known in the relevant sites (gamasutra, gamedev, tigsource etc) and build some online presence so your demos are seen.
I totally agree with all the answers that ppl have put up here. But the best thing that you could do right now is to just think of a game idea you want to implement. Start with something simple. Next pick a language. If you want to make a good performance game, and ur ready to put hours of work into it, then go for C++. If you're interested in developing web oriented games, use html,js and css. Once decided upon all things mentioned above, it's time to start with some reading. Pick up some good ebooks online or check out source codes posted by various ppl. And then start building ur game. It's not only the game companies want to see, rather how much effort and interest you took in building. They want to hire ppl who have experienced those clueless moments and eureka's which all sums up to experience, while building a game. So don't think too much about getting hired in companies and stuff for now. Just focus on making games and enjoying the process.