If the hard drive is even recognized by a computer, I've had a lot of luck using EasyRecovery Professional.  I was able to recover 100% of the data on two of those horrible IBM Deskstars that had failed a few years back.
Your best bet would be taking the drive to a data recovery company who would, in most cases, be able to remove the disk's platters and extract the remaining data from them. However, this process is quite risky and there are no guarantees that your data can be recovered either partially (as a result of a head crash) or at all (as a result of having taken an axe to the drive).
Unfortunately for you, I cannot recommend a specific company to do this, because I almost always have a working backup on hand. If, however, there is no physical damage to the disk (maybe it has just been overwritten or deleted), you might be able to use forensic software to recover the data.
So lets say you've failed at preventing a drive failure, and also, you've failed to make a backup of said drive. Push has come to shove and now you need a way to recover you're precious data. Has anybody out there run into this situation? And if so could you please provide any suggestions on how to recover the data based on your experiences? For example have you used any data recovery services that you could either recommend, or that you would definitely avoid if you had a do-over? Thanks in advance
I once had a case where I was able to use the freezer trick to get the drive to be recognized, used SpinRite to fix the data, and EasyRecovery Professional to copy it.  It took a long time to recover because once the drive reached room temperature, it would stop showing up to the computer.  I considered running it while in the freezer but never got that desperate since the data wasn't a high priority.
I've never used them, but all the accounts I've read say that lab recovery services are horrifically expensive.  It may well work if you're totally out of other options, but a good backup strategy (or, failing that, a backup strategy) really is your best bet.