You could also have people donate/pay for you to work on new features once the game has a following. For instance, if a group of users really want the ability to ride horses in your game, members would donate money to have you put that at the top of the priority list.
Additionally you can also sell the "service" whether it is access in multiplayer games or in game items and so on.
Some projects have released older source to stimulate interest and modding after an initial closed-source start.  The people at Wolfire 2 released some source.  Introversion
The way people like Red Hat make money from open source is by providing support contracts.  It's obviously not practical to charge customers like this, but if someone wants to base a game off your code, why not set up a formal support contract?
It's certainly possible to make money with it. At the very least you can ask for donations or distribute a version with advertisements. It will be difficult, and there's no guarantee you can make the same amount of money, but it's possible.
I'd try to split "fair sharing" based on how much time the various contributors spent on it. It's quite possible nobody involved will be happy with the results and there will be no agreement that can be made. On the other hand, if it's open-source, they also can't stop you from making money off it - selling open-source software isn't illegal as long as you leave it open. If you can come up with a method to make it profitable, then you'd deserve the money earned from it.
For more traditional revenue, why not open-source the game code, but charge for content packs and art?  If people want to improve your code, or provide their own content, great, but your's is going to be the best, most fun and most professional, natch.
So if you want to open source the game and still sell something you have to chose from the above one or more to keep. 
I would start searching the blogsphere to find people who have.  Steve Streeting who lead the Ogre project was quite open about his experiences about making money from his open source engine 1.
Joining an interest group at IGDA 4 or BCS 5 could also be a pro-active step to finding out more, and larger organisations like that may have resources to answer your legal questions about revenue sharing etc.
If all the contributors agree, you can always close the source, improve it, and then sell that. That's probably a much better approach.