Now, when you say "Change Windows 7 default scrollbar", I think you are talking about changing how native scrollbars appear. Because it is difficult, or impossible, to force every application that ever uses a scrollbar to draw it in a specific way, because the application might have custom code that manually draws the scrollbar, and then you can't easily intercept the code it uses and change it.
The short answer is that you should just use WindowBlinds (come on, pony up the money!), but be aware that you will never be able to achieve 100% scrollbar replacement in all applications, due to the many different possible ways of doing rendering.
In particular, if the application you're running uses a well-known custom toolkit, such as Java Swing, you may be able to force customization of the UI for specific toolkits; but you'll have to apply these changes on a "per-toolkit" basis; and you're still out of luck if the application uses hard-coded drawing on a canvas with no toolkit at all.
Clever applications (or applications with certain security privileges) can prevent this DLL hooking, because it poses a potential security risk to the integrity of the information in the application: if an untrusted program can successfully hook a DLL in your program, it can do anything, essentially, including compromising feature limiting functionality of that application. So, certain applications, for security reasons, prohibit this modification.
WindowBlinds, for example, uses a DLL "hook" to inject its own code into graphical applications on the system. The WindowBlinds code intercepts calls into the Windows API that request native widgets, and instead of drawing a default-styled widget, it draws one based on the theme data provided by a WindowBlinds theme. This DLL hook is essentially the only way to do it; there is no general-purpose registry fix or resource hack that can modify graphical elements of native applications. The built-in theming/styling features of Windows are not extremely flexible, hence the need for third-party applications such as WindowBlinds, which inject custom code into every application you run in order to perform the transformation from default scrollbars to custom ones.
In order to change the scrollbars displayed in applications, you have to understand how GUIs are rendered.