We have been using Microsoft's DHCP server on our domain for years with success.  One of the options we are pushing to the client is the default gateway.  In the Scope Options dialog it reads:
Is this just a bug in Windows 7, or is there some other DHCP option that we are unable to find that will also let us push a metric out with each gateway?
Using the Default Router Metric Base option has worked for us in the past but recently our workstations started reverting to the previous behavior.
We recently began testing Windows 7 (RTM) clients as there is pressure to begin deploying the new OS when it is available.  The problem is that it does not respect the "preferred order" pushed in DHCP.  While the routing table shows that it is set up just like the routing table on the XP clients, it uses the second gateway instead of the first.  So far the only way to make it use the first is to manually run the route CHANGE command to set the metric for the first gateway to a lower value.  Since this has to be done as an elevated user, this will be problematic.
So basically you need to specify an interface metric if the Default Router Metric Base does not work for you...
If this doesn't help out you, id recommend creating a script that runs on boot and sets a persistent route (route -p...)
Currently we have 2 routers assigned, our primary and a backup which uses a different (slower) internet connection.  All has been fine with Windows XP running under this setup.
Regardless of what we do with the DHCP scope, this issue persists unless the "automatic metric" checkbox is unchecked and a metric is set. Note that with this setup, the Default Router Metric Base option isn't needed anyways. The only thing I can think of is that a recent update changes how a windows 7 machine behaves when encountering this option. 
Has anyone had recent issues with this? Despite having the 003 Default Router Metric Base option included in the DHCP scope our windows 7 machines are using a metric of 266 for the first gateway, and then 11 for the 2nd gateway. 
The solution is using the Default Router Metric Base option in DHCP but I found that picking the windows 2000 003 option instead of the Microsoft 003 Router Metric Base made the difference.  Using the windows 2000 option it is working with XP Win7 and Win8 on my network.