Of course we don't automatically monitor the application layer but you can write something which does that and changes weights or takes nodes out accordingly.
The down side is that it is not really production-ready - but if you want to test it on your test network I'd be pleased.
As Chopper3 mentioned, hardware based load-balancing is probably going to offer greater performance but you will pay for it.
The company I work for uses Apache to front our Tomcat servers and the load balancer is on the same box as some of the tomcats (tomcats use internal ports). We'll move to a dedicated load balancer box soon. We'll shortly be moving to Nginx though, I find the configuration easier and the whole thing much lighter than Apache. Depending on you network architecture, I'd also advice you to use an internal "floating IP" for the load balancer, and run something like heartbeat to switch the IP to another box if necessary. That would add failover abilities without worrying about DNS propagation issues.
It's basically superficially similar to Microsoft's NLB (I think) - although I don't have their source and don't know exactly how theirs works.
Features you can look for are:  SSL off-loading, vlan support, contexts, clustering, support for routing protocols, and support/interaction with different applications (i.e. html cookies & header modification).
The Cisco GSS (Global Site Selector) is a DNS server that also does health checks.  This is going to be a more expensive option than a standard DNS server obviously.  Web page with more details here:  http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/hw/contnetw/ps4162/index.html
I've set up a solution with DNSMadeEasy. They have a nice screencast regarding DNS failover. They have reasonable pricing. In our system we have implemented a simple service which "pings" the different components in our system (database, JMS queue, S3 connection) and returns OK which DNSMadeEasy can utilize. Whenever an exception comes, DNSMadeEasy will remove that server from the list of servers which answers on that DNS lookup.
I found that crossroads was an excellent load balancer. It handled our production load for a good seven months while the network guys sorted out a hardware problem with a cisco load balancer.