I would rather implement several smaller networks using VLANs. It will give you much greater scalability and flexibility, as well as increase security. Having ~1000 hosts in a single broadcast domain is asking for trouble IMO.
If you used old fashioned 10baseT networking with one cable running past all computers then this would be different. Only one computer could be active at any time. But with modern hardware (Read: switches and not hubs) this should not cause any problems.
Normally, I would advise using subnetting and multiple VLANs, but if you don't have a network administrator, and they have to press programmers into service to fill the role, it's probably wiser to expand the subnet to a /22 or /23.  Much simpler, and you won't need to divert programmers to administering network configs nearly as often with the simpler approach.
If you grow out of your /23 or /22, you'll need... or at least REALLY want to hire a network administrator, or least a consultant to set up a multi-subnet, multi-VLAN network environment for you, if not administer it as well.
I have a /24 IPv4 network, so approximately 255 IP addresses. Very soon we will have more than 250 devices on the network, and this number will continue to grow over time, therefore I have to expand the network capacity somehow. I am already making heavy use of DHCP to reduce the number of devices using an address at once.
I'm a programmer by profession and don't understand this stuff all that well, so I apologise if this question is unclear, and I will try to keep improving it.
Technically, Cisco still advises not using anything bigger than a /24 subnet for a single subnet, but if your gear's all reasonably modern, and you don't have any bad device misconfigurations that would be flooding the network with broadcast traffic, you won't see any issues from going up to ~500 devices on the same subnet, and might even be able to get away with ~1000.  (That's as far as I'd push it, though.)
I can increase the size of the subnet to a /22, giving ~1024 IP addresses. If I do this, will there be issues with having so many devices on a single network? Should I split it up into several smaller subnets? How would I achieve this?