I realize that sudo and /bin/login are two entirely different mechanisms, but it would be nice if sudo didn't ask for a password if your login session is less than, say, 30 seconds.
sudo doesn't ask for a password more than once every 5 minutes by default. Similar to setting your screen-saver to kick in after 5 minutes of inactivity, this is a reasonable default for sudo.
The only way to do wat you want is to update the timestamp on the relevant file, and as you can see you can't without being root which I guess answers your question.
The problem with not requiring a password is that if a user's session is compromised, either physically or through some malicious script/application/etc, you want to make sure to limit the damage. sudo access without a password means that anyone and any application with the user's rights now has sudo access. In addition, you want users to be aware of what they are doing, and give them an extra nudge to be conscientious.
If you think about it, it is kind of silly that sudo asks for your password even if you just logged into the machine and entered your password.
sudo does have a mechanism for not asking for the password for either all commands or a certain subset. Simply prepend NOPASSWD: to the command declaration in /etc/sudoers (using visudo).
If (as is the default) you have tty_tickets enabled then you will need to provide a password for each tty you are using sudo in. The timeouts for each tty are maintained updating a file named for the tty in your timestamp directory. If you have tty_tickets disabled then it's the timestamp of the directory which is used for all ttys.
The purpose of sudo is as security measure.  Similar to the UAC in Windows it helps to prevent privilege escalation attacks.  
Importantly, typing "sudo" is a conscious action. If, as a malware author, I know my malicious script can "sudo" right after you log in, I can really easily run stuff as root. I know exactly when to strike, and it happens every login. If I have to wait for you to run "sudo" yourself, it makes my life a lot harder - I have to keep trying, and will get spotted in logs etc.