also if you don't want to install dd-wrt just use the dir-615 factory firmware: do a full factory reset because it sounds like you've screwed up your settings (this is usually done by holding reset for 30 seconds or something similar) then go change the ssid on the dir-615 to something OTHER than the ssid of your drg700's wireless ssid. check to be sure dhcp is on, check to be sure the dhcp addresses your devices are giving are NOT in the same range (you won't want to have 192.168.1.101 assigned to two devices on your network at once this is no good either!)
what i would do if i were you is install dd-wrt firmware on your dir-615 and set it up as a repeater in bridged mode, then create a virtual interface to bridge your existing connection to and name it something like yourssid2 so you know which one you are connecting to. it's not a good idea to have 2 ap's running on the same ssid, it confuses the clients. also since you've now just turned your boring soho router into an awesome wireless repeater you can take this thing and put it anywhere you can pick up a wireless signal from your drg700 and use it to extend the range of your wifi network to your back yard or something without having to run 100 feet of cat5 cable.
I'm told by my provider that the reason is because the DHCP server on the DRG700 only works wireless, while the LAN ports are given IPs from outside the house. (I would use one of these ports for my broadband TV decoder.)
I have a Packetfront DRG700 broadband modem (fiberoptic), which also has a wireless DHCP server built-in. In addition I have a D-Link DIR-615 router which is connected by cable to the modem. I want both units to be wireless access points for the same local network.
whatever you do, once you're done be sure to set up some wpa or something like that on both ap's so someone doesn't get on your network and screw all your settings up once you have them working.
I've tried disabling the DHCP server on the D-Link and naming both units with the same SSID and passphrase, but that didn't work because whenever I'm wirelessly connected to the D-Link, I get an IP address from my broadband provider and not from the DHCP server on my modem; i.e. I'm no longer connected to my local network.
from what i am aware of that packetfront drg700 doesn't have a wifi access point built in? anyway i guess yours does. moving on past why you would need 2 wireless ap's sitting right next to each other on the same ssid: