Whereas the bulk of the complexity of a developer is focused on the section of code he is writing, and he just has to work with interfaces (using the term generically) that others give him, he doesn't have to understand a lot of the nitty-gritty details of their code.
In terms of easier, I think it depends on what/how you go about doing the sys admin. lets say you manage infrastructure for a large corp - it might be easier if you purchase an off the shelf package and configure it vs custom inhouse make it.
Both jobs have their challenges and rewards... just do what you love and everything else will fall into place.
Oh well, I guess Scotty had it right, always exaggerate the time it takes to complete something so they think you are a miracle worker!
I think each can be fulfilling in it's own ways, and they share qualities as well as have their unique parts.  One thing is true for sure.  If you don't do either in your own time, you don't truly love it, and that means you won't get really really good at it, which means you will be less likely to find the great opportunities of success.
If you look for the money first, you are not guaranteed happiness, because we all know lots of people with money that have no clue of how to treat others or themselves, before they had money, or after.
(*) but the big plus with a small shop is you tend to control things, and the environment tend to be more friendly/family like, where as in a big corp, you would just be a fish in a big lake
Being a sysadmin is one of the fields where, under the proper circumstances, you can set it up so that the better you do your job, the less work you need to do.  The value of this should not be underestimated.
The one thing I've found over and over with people happy in their life's work/work in life is that if you do something you love, the money comes.  
And it also depends on how big the getup is - if you work for a small company, where you are the only IT guy, it might be hard to wear so many hats at the same time, where as in a large corp, you are most likely part of a large team, with a few discrete responsibility. And if you work for a big corp, most likely you will be paid "more" doing your job, where as in a smaller shop, you would be paid "less" doing more stuff than - i.e., the responsibility to pay ratio is high in a small shop*.
The complexity for a Sys Admin is based around many complex components created by others, all of which have to be understood to a certain level to get them to work together.  I found with hardware and networking components, there has to be a lot of understanding of what's in each and every box.
Finding a meaningful, fulfilling, satisfying role that stays that way is a challenge.  There are some things money can't buy (but can help with though).
It seems if a project comes in on time or early, the mentality is either we didn't give person X enough work for the time or they missed something... LOL!
I believe the personality and work ethic of the individual determines which is easy/hard.  I have worked with sysadmins who seem to have nothing to do because they always plan, script, and document as part of their work progress.  Same with programmers... unfortunately I have been fused at more for being "out of work" programming cause I got my stuff done early more than I have ever been fused at being late or behind on a project!  