Or (silly idea), you could create a blank, transparent object the size of the mini map and check that the mouse isn't touching that?
It sounds like what you are doing for the minimap is another camera/viewport that is placed in the top-left corner of the screen. What should be done instead is a visualization of a portion of the area you are currently in. 
I had a problem like this myself, but don't remember exactly if you have to subtract the minimap values from the view's width and height too (I'm pretty sure top left is 0,0 when it comes to game maker's views, but do remember plenty of GUI stuff I did requiring subtraction of the view's width and height... then again my minimap was top right).  
In the example above, the character is centered in a 5x3 bounding box used to generate the minimap. You can scan the tiles in the box and draw the minimap based on what is located there. With this method, the minimap is treated as a GUI object rather than another 'screen' for the game input.
For example, in a tile based game you can use the location of the player and choose a size for the minimap. What you do is then draw the minimap based on a box centered around the player and the tile data. 
If referring to the width/height of the mini map isn't working, you could try hard-coding in the parameters. 
Logging mouse_x and mouse_y in the debugger and watching what numbers come up as you scroll about the view will give you the numbers you need regardless, and is a helpful practice for doing GUI stuff.
A view is a part of your room, you can't have 2 different behaviors in each one of them. One partial solution is to check if the X and Y are inside the main viewport, so in case the player clicks far away where the main viewport can't "see", it won't execute your code.
I have created a minimap for my top-down Shooter and it is showed on the top-left corner of the window. The problem is that if I press anywhere upon the minimap, its like pressing somewhere on the normal game as I have used views to make it. Is there any way to make the minimap inactive?