As you can imagine, the price goes up as the range goes up. Incidentally, as the maximum temperature for a range goes up normally the minimum goes down. This means military grade chips are fine for most uses in spacecraft and satellites.
During my study I have to do a student research project about server systems under extreme environmental conditions. Unfortunately I have really no experience with such systems.
Circuits were lead-soldered (instead of tin). No clock battery, no wet capacitors, and obviously, no fan !
Now, having said all that, I don't personally know of any off-the-shelf systems built with chips other then normal commercial grade ones. Then again, I'm not in a part of the industry where I would expect to ever come across such machines.
Generally we would only use chips made for the "commercial" range, which if memory serves (it often doesn't) is up to 125 deg. C. Then there is the "military" range, which goes a chunk higher. Finally there is another range, the name of which escapes me, that goes higher still.
Does anyone has experience with such systems? I would need some cue words to search for or some references I can use. Maybe someone has some information about how to run a server in desert, in pole regions or even underwater.
Coming from Western Australia, we have a lot of Iron Ore mines.  If you think normal dust is bad, you should see what ferrous dust does to electrical equipment.
Temperature range is of course only part of the equation but it is the part that is generally the hardest to satisfy. The rest should be met by using normal harsh environment engineering practices.
I already did some research, but not really successful ones. I only found some IP 68 racks, but I don't want to limit my research on server racks.
To further research this rather interesting area I suggest you look research systems built for ships, aircraft and spacecraft. Military types if possible, as they tend to be the more robust. e.g. A server in a ship, especially a warship, must be able to withstand fairly large extremes of hot and cold, plus at least some contact with salt water, sodium and chlorine vapours (produced when salt water and electricity mix) and other nasties. Pretty tough environment.
Sorry I missed this one when it was first posted. When you look at the datasheets for just about any chip you can imagine you discover that nearly all of them are made in at least 2, usually 3, temperature ranges. This covers ambient operating temperatures, not the actual chip temperatures, which had a different and normally considerably higher limit.