i posted the above SUM and it appears to work - when the invoice due date is filled out the days remaining column continues to count down. when data is entered into invoice paid the days remaining column freezes. Just what i wanted - only issue i have is when no data is entered - the cell shows VALUE!
What I would suggest instead is to derive that same data value via a Paid date value.  However, I don't believe you need to add on another data entry step to your current form procedure.  Chances are, someone in your organization (likely in AR) is already entering that data somewhere, and depending on your network security policies you might be able to directly reference that data over your local intranet.  Your best bet is to see if you can link your sheet to an external data connection and cross-reference by Invoice Number for Check Date, then derive the difference between that and Due Date; depending on your intended usage and what degree of precision or accuracy you actually require, I would assume check dates are sufficient in common settings (just keep in mind it wouldn't reflect real-world practices such as post-dated checks, etc).
The idea is.. instead of just filling up "Paid" or K11. You do that + insert today's date (manually) in O11. For this to work you'll need to change the formula in K11 to :
 Likely, there's some way to achieve it through VBA coding but inferring from the contents of the spreadsheet, this is being used in a corporate setting -- where security policies typically don't play nice when it comes to .xlsm files.
If your accounting utilizes software such as QuickBooks rather than spreadsheets, it may be more complicated to create the connection and you may want to consult with someone with appropriate knowledge and seniority to help accomplish a live sync.  Optionally in that scenario, you can simply ask your accounting to setup a recurring report export via, e.g., .csv format to a predetermined network directory (which I believe can also be automated), to which you can directly reference via formula.