Are you getting a blue screen error before it restarts? If so, you can disable it in the Advanced Options menu (press F8 after the BIOS screen but before the Windows XP logo appears). There should be an option in there that says something like "Disable automatic reboot on blue screen". If there is, select it and reboot. If you do end up getting a blue screen error, come back here with that information.
I've been through hell with a similar problem. Still not entirely sure what the problem was but it was solved by pulling the PC to bits and replacing the CPU in the end, despite the old one working, it just seemed to be unstable. 
Could be dodgy connections or motherboard or overheating on CPU or hard disk failure or corrupted OS install. Check all of these in order that requires the least amount of hassle and changing things to see if that helps
I would recommend using a live CD of some type either Linux based or a windows based one so that you can determine if you're dealing with a hardware issue or a software issue. If you can successfully boot into a live CD's enviroment then I would say that you're working with a software error and that a repair or restore of the windows operating system might need to be done.
Sometimes it boots up successfully, but sometimes it doesn't. I suspect it may be a display driver (the screen is lagging as it scrolls), and I've already upgraded it to the most recent driver supplied by ATI, but it didn't work. Here's what I've tried so far:
If you can not get into a running system off of a live CD then you might want to check out any new hardware that has been installed. Swapping out older hardware for newer installed hardware to see what works and what doesn't. Keep using the Live CD since you know that it's a working system and can't be changed. Remember to only change out one part at a time so that you know what you've worked with and what you haven't.
It sounds like you might have a fault memory module installed since you're dealing with an intermittent problem.
You might want to try a livecd to try to rule out hardware issues, then try a 'repair install' to try to fix any system files that might have been damaged.