Quagga losing routes was my primary reason to switch to bird. Over some time I am running a corporate VPN with hundreds of branch-offices, linked through the ipsec/gre/whatever point-to-point tunnels. On some branch offices I was using the FreeBSD/quagga setups. The issue was - in a OSPF router chain like A - B - C the prefix originated from A was seen on B, but not on C. After months of struggling, finding no solution, and seeing this situation spontaneously arises and clears it self with quagga (and with no proprietary vendors like Cisco or Juniper) and various prefixes, I switched to bird. Now the problem is gone.
The management burden I was originally concerned with was subsided because the project requirements changed and supporting cisco based spokes was no longer required, while at the same time we deployed an organization wide config management infrastructure.
Essentially we worked around this issue. We wound up adding the required code changes to bird (thanks for the suggestion @drookie), and switching over to use it. We like the fact that it's a more *nix style service with a config file (makes config management easier), rather than a cisco emulator.
I was asked to provide an answer to this question, to close it out. I may be a little fuzzy on the details as we are approaching 3 years ago now.
Each virtual broadcast domain (DMVPN cloud) contains 2 hub boxes at each datacenter (rather than one hub as the diagram above suggests), with each of the hub boxes being on separate internet subnets to protect against the one off internet routing issues.
You may call this lame. You may say I should report this and help communnity to fix it. But for me quagga and it's bugtracker seems to be for a long time some kind of post-nuclear desert, where sporadic groups of friendly developers may be encountered, but more likely you will die of dehydration or some bug. Bird is developed more intensively, and it's mailing list is more populated with developrs and practical help.
I can't remember if we ever tested this exact failure scenario with bird, but I'm guessing we did, and it failed in a similar fashion because we ended up creating a dual layer dmvpn.
I wish I could provide a more direct answer to the question, but this is how we pushed through this issue. Thank you to the folks who attempted to help.