Nevertheless, if Alice, Bob, and Eve are in possession of some sort of correlated randomness, then it may be possible to construct such a scheme. 
The point is that public-key cryptography requires an asymmetry in the difficulty of computing a function: it's supposed to be hard to compute except if you have a special "key". It's easy to define functions that are hard (or even impossible) to compute for everyone -- there are more such functions than algorithms. It's also easy to define functions that are easy for everyone. It's the asymmetry that requires a lot of ingenuity -- and it fundamentally depends on the computational limitations of the adversary.
While it is possible in theory to construct a theoretically unnreakable cipher, e.g. a one-time pad with pad content not identifiably nonrandom,  it is not possible to prove theoretically that the key exchange was secure, because whether there was a covert channel observer that surreptitiously copied the key is an empirical matter.
No. What is a key exchange? Both parties have a private random sequence (that they've generated for themselves) plus possibly some public random sequence (that the eavesdropper can also see). Then they want to communicate so that the other party learns something about the probability distribution of their sequence that the eavesdropper doesn't. But whatever a party says just updates the probability distribution of their random sequence for anyone who sees their message.
A classic paper on this topic is "Secret Key Agreement by Public Discussion from Common Information" by Ueli Maurer. 
Let me elaborate on @domotorp's answer, since a natural first objection might be, "We're talking about secure key exchange -- who said anything about requiring randomness?" 
One such example is when a satellite broadcasts several random bits, and Alice, Bob, and Eve receive the bits through different binary symmetric channels with certain error probabilities. One can prove that, in this case, information-theoretical key agreement is possible, even when Eve's error probability is much lower than Alice's and Bob's.
I believe you are talking about the existence of information-theoretically (unconditionally) secure key agreement schemes. You can prove that such schemes cannot be achieved with only authenticated channels from Alice to Bob and Bob to Alice.