I have a HP ENVY 17-3200 (switchable graphics: Intel HD 4000 + AMD Radeon HD 7800M) with a triple monitor setup:
I suspect this may have something to do with the fact the 4000's drivers only support WDDM 1.3 and the AMD drivers support WDDM 2.0.
This configuration worked under Windows 7, 8, and 8.1.  After upgrading to Windows 10, only 2 displays work.  I have the latest drivers.
BTW, main reason I upgraded to Win 10 was that I can have %^&* Start menu back again. But to my surprise, the upgrading process was very smooth - I didn't even have to reinstall my software packages again - except for the display driver.  mess.
I guess what I'm saying is that you might want to try using the Win 7 driver for the Intel HD 4000 and see if it works. 
What I did to get them going is install the Windows 7 driver for the Intel HD 4000. I found the driver on the disk that came with the Motherboard (I could have downloaded it too) and installed it using Device Manager. Once I did this, my monitors work.
A couple of things to note. First, for some reason I cannot update the Intel driver to the Windows 10 version (the one you are using). I've tried everything but it just won't update. Second, I tried using the Win 8.1 driver for Intel HD 4000 and it causes an infinite loop of BSODs. Only the Win 7/8 (they are the same) driver worked for me.
Right click anywhere on your screen and select "Graphic Properties". When the Intel HD Graphics Control Panel comes up click the "Display" tab.
I have a desktop setup with four monitors - two powered by an AMD Radeon HD 7700 and two powered by the on-board Intel HD 4000. After I upgraded to Windows 10, the Intel monitors were black. Windows didn't recognize the Intel HD 4000 display adapter.
I had a similar problem with NVidia driver. After upgrading to Win 10, only one monitor was working but the NVidia graphics card was not recognized in device manager. I tried to uninstall the driver installed for Win 8.1 in vain. Uninstaller said it couldn't uninstall any Nvidia-related software without any information on the reason.
After repeating reboot a couple of times, I went to device manager and updated driver of the Nvidia graphics card using internet and rebooted again. That did it for me. All four monitors are working alright now. I didn't even have to reinstall CUDA toolkit for the new driver.