RIP, in and of itself, is an application, but it supports the network layer of the OSI model.  There are daemons you can download on your computer, like routed, that allow servers to talk to other RIP processes.  Just try to understand the theory that each application/daemon supports a different purpose (or layer) of the OSI model.
An application layer protocol will still rely upon lower layers (Transport, Network, Data Link and Physical) to help deliver the Application data. In this case, the RIP data is the contents of a router's routing table. If you examine a packet capture from Wireshark or nmap, you will see that in order to deliver the RIP data, it will rely upon UDP, with port number 520 which is used the RIP routing process, at the Transport layer. 
As for a formal executable name, the RIP routing process may be called something different on different routers. However these processes/applications are the ones sharing data, hence RIP is an Application Layer protocol.
Ripv2 & RIPng are layer 3 protocols and these protocols generate and multicast(224.0.0.9) updates every 30 seconds by default.
As for the Network layer, a standard IPv4 or IPv6 header is used. In the case of IPv4 and RIPv1 the destination address is the broadcast address, 255.255.255.255. In the case of and IPv4 and RIPv2 the destination address is a multicasting address, specifically 224.0.0.1.
I think you're getting confused on how the OSI model plays into the routing. It's just a model, nothing more, nothing less.  RIP works at layer 3 and sends routing information across the network.
RIP is an Application Layer protocol. The application that is using the protocol is the RIP routing process / application on each router.
RIP isn't at the application layer because no application can use it (within reason) and the application layer needs it to find the route to the proper device.  RIPs only function is to distribute routing updates.  It only tells neighboring routers about routes it knows about.