As you are planning your partitions it is very helpful to have a good understanding of things like the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard and if/how your chosen unix deviates from the standard.
RAID is good, I always run RAID1 on all my personal computers because I have had too many hard drives fail.
On my wife's workstations at the university, which have two 750 GB drives, we created, in addition to the above, a dozen ~100 GB partitions across the various drives all mounted in /data/N where N was a number from 1 to 12.  She uses these to hold the data for her different research projects.
Encryption with something like dm-crypt is good if your system is a portable device, has high-value data, or your just paranoid.
Planning a good partitioning structure is heavily dependent on actually knowing how you are going to use the system.  Any random advice that doesn't take into account what the system is doing isn't going to be particularly useful.
use noatime on all disks (unless you have a reason not to) I mount /tmp in tmpfs although this may not be so good on a server, I'd make sure it's a separate partition and mount it nodev,nosuid,noexec,noatime. I always use ext2 for /boot so I don't have to worry about changing fs stuff screwing my ability to boot w/ grub. ext4 on everything else, I use journal=data on /home which probably slows things down a bit (as it doesn't have dealloc) but I've never lost data with journal=data either, and being a bit of latest/greatest whore, sometimes my system locks up and I have to hard reset it (because I tried something like kms and found a bug).
All the fancy filesystems may be useful on occasion, but if you want a stable system it may be a better idea to just stick with the 'standard' filesystem (i.e. ext3) unless you have a very good reason to use something else.
Thats far from the perfect though.  I need to investigate alternative filesystems, currently I use ext3 but I've heard great things of other filesystems for example XFS.
Using LVM can make it much easier to change your mind in the future and adjust your partitions without having to reboot., and its ability to create snapshots can be very easy to create good backups.  Use LVM, and don't immediately allocate all of your space.
I just run Linux Workstations.  I use the ext3 file system and the sizes somewhat depend on the size of the disks, being more generous with the partitions on the larger disks.  These are roughly in the order they appear in the partition table: