But you you really want a meaningful number, then you need to take into account a pile of variables such as:
Oh and make sure that your 'service manager' is structured, clear in their communications, happy to listen to his team and capable of using the word 'no' - do NOT expect them to directly project manage new additions to your platform (minor changes yes but not large functional additions), get someone else to work project manage these by working with the SM.
I build platforms and form support teams in a similar manner, plus you state you need 'very high availability (HA)', that's what I do too, so let's see how we get on :)
So for some systems, say a shared server in a department with lots of users, you might need 1 admin per server, but for other apps, e.g. google's search farm, you can probably get by with 1 admin for hundreds of servers.
You need to break your skillsets down into groups, also you're covering a lot of bases here and HA requires good or great skills rather adequate or intermediate skills.
If you have two sysadmins, then this gets alleviated. However you all need time off, which is why a 3rd part-timer for a system of that size can help alleviate that final bit of unnessesary pressure.
Even when things are running smoothly, you can always make things better or perform audits and the like.
If you need 100% uptime with someone on call 24/7, I would suggest you need at least two full time sysadmins, working alternating shifts, and at least one part-timer, regardless of your network size.
Now obviously this is quite a lot of staff, but then again you're asking us for how we'd do this and this is exactly how I'd do it - I'm utterly focussed on serving my business and understaffing/skilling a HA-requiring platform fails to achieve this goal.
If 24/7 uptime is not critical to your business (say, you're only aiming for 99%) then having an on-call tech 24/7 is probably not such a heavy issue (We only offer on-call from 6am to 10pm, which is fine for all our clients).