In Canada, "Engineer" is a professional designation like Doctor or Lawyer.  You're not allowed to call yourself an engineer unless you've jumped through all the hoops (got an Engineering degree from an accredited university, done a required amount of engineering work supervised by a certified engineer, and passed a couple professional exams), and companies aren't supposed to use the term in job titles unless the person in the position is a registered engineer.
As someone with an engineering degree, but who hasn't (and probably never will) fulfilled the other requirements, I'm always turned off by job titles that use the term improperly.  
I think that most of what SF'ers do is covered by either "Systems Administrator (or Manager)" or "Network Manager" (I'm not sure why, but Network Administrator doesn't seem right to me.)  If there are a couple levels of Sys. Admins, then it might make sense to add "Senior" to some of the job titles. 
Production support engineer sometimes means there is a separation of concerns.  The engineer may be consulted for escalations, but the admin staff actually execute any changes.  The support engineer may be a subject matter expert in one or a few areas.  The admin staff may support a wide variety of systems and have.more than one engineer for escalation, depending on the product.  For example, you may have a Windows server administrator, but separate engineers for Exchange, SQL, and IIS.  
This one is hard to figure out.  I think there's a sense that Support or Service Engineers have a higher level of technical skills than regular Sysadmins.  Historically sysadmins were considered more the people who keep the machine or machines running vs. the programmers who wrote code.
In practice I don't see a lot of difference between these job descriptions.  I think you might attract older or more senior candidates with the 'sysadmin' title but I'm really not sure.
Sounds to me like Production Support Engineer is an internal title given to someone who generically is a System Administrator, but just responsible for the production environment.  I would put System Administrator as the title on the job posting and explain the production environment responsibilities in the job description.
Instead of worrying about this title, I suggest instead you read the SAGE job level descriptions.  Use those to determine the skill level required for the position.
The engineer may recommend actions, but the administrator should have the final decision, because they are executing the change and are responsible for the outcome.