So I'm going to suggest you take a step back for a moment and consider what might seem to be too obvious.
You might want to consider dedicated circuits between you and the colocation facility since VOIP is involved.
Since most businesses can't do much without power to computers and machinery I would think that a phone is of little use except in an "emergency" situation.  Even a call centre can't do much without their computers running.  You need to weigh this up against the cost of putting in a bigger UPS and providing UPS power to the phones via PoE.
Unless you're hosting web sites or other things I suggest you're wasting your time and money even contemplating making the phones still work in a power outage.  The employees won't be able to do much anyway.
Nowadays, most employees will have a cell phone which they can use in case of emergency (911 call) if the office phone system is not working.
However, a UPS on servers can be very beneficial.  Not having to reboot the server is a good thing if it can survive the black out period.  And if it can't survive the blackout period, having the UPS signal the server that it's going to loose power soon so that the server can do an orderly shutdown is also a very good thing.
If it is for emergency cases why not use (satelite) mobile phones that are always charged or can be charged through batteries or something along that way.
A. Honestly, I think the answer is quite obvious.  Most businesses don't have large UPS's for their computers and machinery that allow their staff to keep working.
So I'd suggest you ensure your servers can keep running for around 40+ minutes off battery.  I'd not bother with individual phones but if you want you could power those from PoE.
The reason that the generator would be necessary even if you choose a colocation space is that if the power to the building is knocked out, then phones won't work anyway so having your Asterix box and other important equipment humming along safely in a datacenter will do no good if your users can't get to them because your demarc room is powerless and you can't get a network connection.
If the UPS units are drained, there's probably not much you can do without power. Your goal should be to make sure you have sufficient UPS/generator capacity for your PoE switches and your Asterisk device to be up for however long you need in a disaster scenario (20 minutes is fairly short, I'd be aiming for an hour).