A nightly backup process works fine, however if someone whacks a table or you get something corrupted, chances are that you will want to recover to the last hour, or minute. So I'd be sure that you have at least hourly transaction log backups.
Not really a tape or removable solution but we use transaction log shipping every 10 mins to a warm standby server, and when we did have a catastrophic failure one day, just pointed the connection string to the 2nd server and kept on trucking.
We have been deploying Red Gate SQL Backup for some servers of that size.  It seems to be significantly faster than Backup Exec for disk based backups and restores.  It's also fairly reasonably priced.
Instead of sticking with our normal Backup Exec & LTO Tape system that we've used for production servers in the past, I'm looking at alternatives for our new SQL 2005 server that will go live in about 2 months.
First, be sure you use either the native SQL Server backups or SQL Backup/Litespeed/Hyperbac to back up to DISK. While I like tape for getting things offsite, it's not reliable, nor quick enough for backups from SQL Server. BackupExec , Arcserver and other agent based solutions have never been reliable enough for me. I would use them to move files to/from disk to tape, but not from a process like SQL Server. They just have failed enough times in the past that I won't trust them.
Iron Mountain, or some similar service, likely exists in your city to daily pick up tapes and rotate them offsite. You could have them pick up USB drives just as well, but make sure things get offsite regularly.
What kind of software and hardware are you guys using to backup a single SQL server?  This server will see a moderate amount of usage during normal business hours and little-to-no usage outside of business hours.  I expect to have no more than 500GB of data that needs to be backed up on a regular basis.  In the past, we've done full SQL and system backups overnight to a tape library, alternating sets of tapes weekly.  I'd like to move away from storing 8-10 tapes per week to maybe a removable storage solution like the Dell RD1000.  Does anyone have any real-world experience using a RD1000 for nightly backups?  Similarly, is Backup Exec still a decent choice or should I be looking elsewhere?
I don't typically keep more than 2 days of backups around, but that depends on how far back you might need to go and regulatory issues. The maintenance plans in SQL Server 2005 can help you set these up as well as remove old backups. Note, create a new backup before deleting old ones.
I know lots of people want to just use disk, and I can understand that IF you can get your data offsite overnight. That requires bandwidth, and you know if you can do that. If you can't get it offsite on a wire, do it with tape.
What type of medium you choose is another question. Tapes are IMHO not necessary these days. HDDs and offshore servers are so cheap these days.
That heavily depends on your demands. If it is fine to lose a whole day, you could stick to full backups every night. Otherwise you may wanna do full backups every night and log shipping in short periods. With this configuration, you can restore the last full backup and roll forward to a given point in time using the saved transaction logs.