I'd say the problem is on the DHCP server end rather than your MacBook. The Windows DHCP server has a number of options for updating DNS records, and can behave a bit differently for clients that are or are not members of the domain. In the Windows 2003 version, there is a checkbox for updating clients that do not request updates (It mentions NT clients). From memory, I think that is what you will need to ensure is checked.
So you could try removing spaces and any other special characters from the computer name, to see if that enables it to be resolved on the network.
I discovered that Macs sometimes send their hostname in the request, and sometimes do not. In particular I found that if the computer name (Control Panel > Sharing -> Computer name) contains a space, then NO hostname will be sent (under OS X 10.6). If it does NOT contain a space, then it WILL be sent.
So static IPs can be whatever you want, since DNS will let you enter the long name. But dynamic/DHCP are limited to 15 if you want them to self-register in DNS.
DNS hostname length per RFC is 64 characters (with 255 total for the FQDN). Microsoft NetBIOS name length is 16 characters (15 of the name plus 1 for a special class tag). What I've found is that, using a Windows-based DHCP/DNS infrastructure, you are automatically limited to a 15-char length even if you don't care about NetBIOS and even if your DNS hostname length is otherwise perfectly RFC compliant. 
http://www.applesource.com.au/how-to/soa/Connect-a-Mac-to-Windows-Small-Business-Server/0,2000451082,339287478,00.htm
Search DNS on the first document, and see if any of their suggestions help you. I also included a couple others, which looked helpful. There are known bugs, so there might not be a simple answer without troubleshooting, and knowing specifics about your local domain.
First, you are trying to register it to the DNS server, which handles resolution. You may be looking in the wrong area for settings to change.
Then click on the edit button and verify that the name you entered is in there with ".local" added. Omit the quotation marks.