They have horrible graphics, are buggy, and often not incredibly fun to play, but the cool thing is that I have an idea now of the possible success of five new game mechanics, and I've lost less than 5 hours.  One of the five seems like it could actually be a fun game, so I might spend more time to actually make it into something.
I've been doing a lot of reading and listening to pod casts recently, and a lot of successful developers stress making a bunch of games as one of the best paths towards success as a game developer/designer.  I've repeatedly heard comments along the lines of "Don't try to make your dream game initially, just make ANYTHING."
This is a very common problem, and there are a few exercises to get around it that I ask of my students. 
You can approach this two ways, either as a serious attempt to reduce a genre to its essentials, or as a parody of the genre that lampoons the inherent banality of the core mechanics.
Here's another idea: change your design so that the game could be played to completion in 5 to 15 minutes. Can you use clever design to restrict the scope of the game so that the play time is incredibly short -- a competitor of Minesweeper more than Final Fantasy?
Pick a simple game you enojoy from the 80s/90s and give it some interface love, turn it into something shiny again.
Try this thought exercise: take one of your designs that's too big, and ask what you would do if you had to cut 90% of the features.
Identify the "core" of the game -- what's the one thing the player does over and over that's fun, that really drives the gameplay (or alternately, the one unique mechanic that makes your game stand out from the genre)? Implement that only, consider everything else as fluff.
Try to keep your projects small, even if the result is "unintrestingly simple" games.  The code from those projects can then be reused or extended, resulting in more interesting projects. If you are impatient to get something finished soon, work extra hard on getting the game idea simple and stripped of everything but the really bare essentials.
Doing so will increase your confidence ("Wow, I have X ideas functional in only Y hours?"), increase your portfolio, and increase your skill as a designer.  Good luck!
Yesterday, I happened to have found a link to a guy who made one mini-game or interactive program each day for 219 days! (see http://interactionartist.com/index.php?page=allgad)  Imagine having 219 ideas and prototypes in less than a years time.  Sure, a lot of them will be junk (many of his are less than stellar), but incredibly, many of them will quite possibly be fun and interesting ideas.  
I have been fighting with this as a hobby game developer myself.  Having a family with kids, fairly bad discipline, and a bad habit just like everyone else to want to do everything at once (which seem to plague not just hobbyist game development but all software development), I find it hard to get any of my games created.  So the years goes on but in this matter, time is on our side as I see it because:
In my case, in any year, all these three factors will converge to the point I actually manage to write some playable incarnation of some of my ideas.  For you Kragen, that point might already have been reached, if you manage to pick a simple enough game idea to write.
Creating something within a super-constrained time frame forces you to focus on the core mechanic of the game, the idea that makes it special.  Sure, to have a commercially successful game you need polish and high production value, but "you can put makeup on a pig, but it doesn't change the fact that it's a pig" lol.  How much better to spend a tiny amount of time on each concept, then you can focus on polishing the ideas that seem to actually have merit.
I had recently been having some of the same issues you mentioned, but I decided to try using my hour lunch break at work to create a simple game each day.  Admittedly, an hour is obviously not long, but if you are sufficiently experienced in some type of game tool (Flash for me, or Unity), it should be possible to make something during this time period.  I've done it five times now, and the crazy thing is that I have five new game ideas done.