Looks like you are using Windows which considered two files with names differing by case alone to be the same filename.
Also, files that differ only by the case of their filename/path are considered identical when extracting to a filesystem that is case insensitive (Windows or Mac OS.)
If you look at the output, the files have the same size, same date, same CRC, so these file are identical, you can safely overwrite one with the other. It may be that some copied it with a different case as a local temporary backup while working on those files. The block number is that they are stored in different locations in the zip file, which should be obvious.
It may be that your archive was created on a case-sensitive file-system (such as most Linux ones) and the two files had different cases (Ex: ENTRIES, Entries, entries).
You can't have two identical file names in the same path. Have you checked to see if your system is hiding the extensions? That could be the possible difference between the two. Maybe one is a backup file.
Yes. .zip files CAN contain the same file twice.  This can be accomplished using the "add to archive" function of your zip tool.  By default, a later file overwrites any former file(s) when extracting as this is usually the desired behavior.
Note that on Windows if you drag-and-drop to extract files a collision like this will actually appear to lock up the GUI. You don't have to resort to killing the task and restarting though; this is a known bug in 7-Zip and you can use the keyboard still to navigate through the options (e.g. Replace All) even though the mouse is locked -> http://sourceforge.net/p/sevenzip/bugs/1509/
Same file, same extension (or in this case, no extension). As has been said above this can be caused by manually adding multiple files to the zip file, because the internal structure of the zip file is not really a folder. It can also be caused when the zip file is created on a system that is case-sensitive such as Linux, and is being opened on a file system that is case-insensitive such as Windows.