Windows - Owned and developed by Microsoft, i think we are all familiar with this so no explanation needed.
Nowadays, when people use these terms, they're generally referring solely to the OS, though it's largely implied that a PC is a system running Windows, Mac is a system running OSX, Unix/Linux is running Unix or Linux.  The underlying hardware is generally understood to be the same general purpose Intel/AMD hardware - if someone is running on something different, they'll generally make a point to specify that they're on ARM, PPC, Alpha, etc.
"PC" stands for (depending on who you ask) "Portable Computer" or "Personal Computer".  ("Portable" in this sense means weighing under about 75 pounds and hence theoretically capable of being carried about by one person.)  As such, "PC" can be applied to any deskside/desktop/laptop/palmtop computer, regardless of it's architecture or operating system.
"Mac" refers to "Macintosh", the name of a variety of apple which was chosen by Apple computer to name their line of graphically-oriented computers.  As such, "Mac" is one type of "PC".
Linux - Developed originally by Linus Torvalds, it is based on the UNIX system and is very similar in many ways, however now there are many different variants (free and commercial). It is based on the open source philosophy where the source code for it is visible and modifiable by anyone who knows what they are doing (as opposed to Windows and MacOS* in a sense, where the code is proprietary and not available for the public domain).
Mac (Apple Macintosh) is a proprietary system built by Apple computers, which primarily uses it's own operating system Mac-OS (some enthusiasts do manage to get other OS's running). So technically a Mac, IS a PC.
However, in common usage (not being picky, ie) "PC" is usually used to refer to a Windows-based x86 system derived from the original "IBM PC".
Then you have what you are referring to as a PC which is more often known as IBM Compatible PC's. It is not proprietary in the sense that you can mix and match parts from different manufacturers allowing the average person to purchase parts that they require and build their own system from scratch (compared to a Mac, where they are designed to be purchased as a single unit pre-assembled, ready to go).
UNIX is an operating system that has been around, mainly on DEC PDP-11 and VAX computers, since the 60s.  (Originally developed by Bell Labs, though I don't know who owns it now.)  LINUX is a UNIX "clone", with most of the same external features and APIs as UNIX but a different internal structure.  It was originated in, I think, the 80s by Linus Thorvolds (sp?) as an alternative to Microsoft DOS/Windows on Intel x86 based PCs.  It is free "shareware", whereas DOS/Windows and the OSx MAC operating systems are "owned" by Microsoft and Apple respectively (though, curiously, later versions of OSx are built on top of LINUX).
Unix - There are many variants of this operating system. The original Unix was developed at AT&T's Bell Labs research center by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others. It was designed as a multi-user, multitasking operating system.
Today, the distinctions you're referring to are almost all software (meaning the OS), and not hardware.
MacOS - Originally delevoped in 1984 with the original Macintosh. It is credited with popularizing the graphical user interface concept. It was originally designed to run only on Apple Macintosh hardware systems. Interestingly, the Latest versions of Mac OS are based on a unix core system after Apple bought the company that Steve jobs worked at after he left apple which was at the time developing a Unix based operating system.
PC is an abbreviation for Personal Computer. It is a general-purpose computer, whose size, capabilities and original sale price makes it useful for individuals, and which is intended to be operated directly by an end-user with no intervening computer operator. This term was coined to differentiate between other systems at the time which where predominantly dumb terminals that connected to a mainframe on which many people would use at the same time.