Join user groups, join a professional association, like LOPSA, SAGE, and go to (or start) local chapters of the above. 
In my work, we encourage school district technical admins to join our listserves where technical topics related to education are discussed.   
I haven't tried this personally, but if someone called me with something like that I would respond positively. 
In addition, there is a social network setup specifically for sysadmins, called creatively, The Sysadmin Network. It's devoted to helping sysadmins communicate to each other. 
I run Standalone Sysadmin, which sort of caters to small infrastructure sysadmins. I've got around a thousand subscribers and of those, a couple of dozen people who come back again and again to comment and interact with each other. It's great to see. 
What I would do is make a list of companies that fit your profile (size of the business, proximity to you), then either send them an email through their website or call them to find out who their IT responsible is.
If you are in a smaller community (as you indicated), you might want to consider a more direct approach and build something. The likelihood of just a handful of people finding a MeetUp group is pretty small.
Attend conferences, go to product demonstrations, training courses, that kind of thing.  Online can be great but nothing compares to face-to-face.
To be honest, this is about the only way I can collaborate with other sysadmins. While I live in a large city, I don't really have time outside of work to do that sort of thing, what with a 2 year old and another on the way.
To advertise your usergroup (or whatever), put ads in papers, local website, local businesses, whatever you've got. Trust me, the people are out there, they just have to be found. 
Sometimes all it takes to get a group going is to find that one old grizzled sysop that used to run the community BBS. The old BBS people probably got together back in the day, but now that the net is here and the BBSes have died, they don't have a reason. Give them one. 
I've seen time and time again that there are always more people interested in joining a group than there are people interested in starting a group. Once the momentum is going, people jump on the bandwagon like there's no tomorrow. 
If you have communication with some of your community's technical colleagues, you could ask them if they'd all like to participate in a listserv where they can all network and discuss technical solutions.  
I'm the sysadmin over at XYZ, Co. I'm trying to get together a small group of net admins that would meet up occaisionally to talk about sys admin issues like Linux, Windows 2008, etc. Would you be interested?"