Current estimates are that the average PUE of a medium Data Centre is 2.6. So as others have said this means for every 100kW of IT you have 160kW going into the cooling & other losses. 
However a lot of Data centres waste huge amount of cold air with recirculation of hot & cold air because of poor design, lack of blanking panels etc. 
APC as well as the actual server vendors (IBM, Dell, HP) all have calculators to come up with how much it costs to "go green" so to say.
Its going to be really difficult to get a comprehensive & accurate answer without specifically studying your environment. Examples:
Reducing these costs is a big part of the push to virtualization, so look into some of the information available there as well. I suspect that VMWare, Citrix and possibly MS have white papers and marketing fluff relating to the power & cooling savings from virtualizing servers.
... and you missed the most overlooked item in TCO : disposal (transfer or destruction of the data; physical removal and sale/recycling of the hardware).
I've seen anecdotes about power consumption (possibly including cooling) for servers can now exceed the cost of the hardware in just a couple of years, but no hard numbers. As noted by Joe H, this will vary by area - if you're in California and someone starts playing with your energy markets, you may find yourself paying more than if you're next to a wind farm in Wyoming.
Joe H. was right on the money regarding disposal. Equipment should have a budgeted lifecycle, from acquisition to decommissioning. If you think about the entire lifecycle of IT equipment (including desktops) when you buy it, you will naturally start slashing away at operational inefficiencies.
For example:  APC's data center efficiency portal has a lot of good information.  You have to register first, but it is worthwhile to get access to the calculators, etc.
It's going to vary by area, with what your costs for power are.  This varies greatly, and tends to be why Google, Microsoft and others are building sites in what might otherwise be considered the middle of nowhere.
The factor between power in & cooling capacity is known as COP or Co-efficient of Performance & for a typical modern chiller will be 3.5-4 so at COP 4 you'd get 100kW of cooling for 25kW of electrical energy.
http://www.apc.com/tools/registration/promo/RegisterCustomer.cfc?method=getPromo&keycode=c828w&promotionID=13186