I think the answer is no because a shortcut is not really a symbolic link in the same way it is in linux.  The concept of symbolic link was introduced as part of NTFS 5.0, but they apply to directories, not files.  Things may have changed in windows 7, I admit to being clueless there.  Shell-shocked has a good article on Windows Symbolic and Hard Links.
As an alternative workaround, I found Microsoft Groove very helpful. Files can be dropped into a Groove workspace as a temporary placeholder (like a zip file).  Then drag and drop the files from the Groove workspace onto the destination folder in Windows Explorer.
It would be cool to be proven wrong on this one, because this is a problem I would love to have a solution to at work!
I know you said Windows XP, Vista or 7, but back in the 1990's in Mac OS 7, you could tell Aladdin's DropStuff software (by checking a box in the preferences) to Stuff the Original files instead of the Aliases (shortcuts) when creating a "sit" (similar to a "zip") compressed archive.  Back in those days, there was a free PC version of Aladdin's software that made "zip" archives.  It ran on Windows 95 and 98.  Perhaps it will run on Windows XP, Vista or 7 and allow you to do the same thing there.
I had a similar problem where by we had a tree structure of shortcuts. We wanted to copy the target files along side the shortcut.
In my previous reply. I mentioned that back in the 1990's, Aladdin made a PC version of Dropstuff which made both "zip" and "sit" compressed archives.  Believe it or not, I still have a Windows 98 computer that has version 5.0 of Aladdin Dropstuff installed on it.  Like the ancient Mac version, this PC version allows you to select as a preference, whether the link it was given should be put into the archive or the original file that the link points to.  Unfortunately, there are some issues.  First, one of keyboard short-cuts for this program is ctrl+z which might interfere with what ctrl+z is supposed to do in other programs.  Second, if you install this on a Windows 7 computer, it is not clear how well it will co-exist with the compressed "zip" file handling that is now built in to Windows (Windows 95 and 98 did not have this capability).  In any case, once the files you want are in the "zip" archive that Aladdin Dropstuff will make, it is a simple matter to get those files from that archive.