Stop buying cheap hardware. Get a decent web-managed gigabit switch, say http://h17007.www1.hp.com/us/en/products/switches/HP_V1905_Switch_Series/index.aspx
Get something online to watch traffic.  Paessler has PRTG eval that has worked well for me. Works on an XP system and is not too demanding.
Work with the vendor. I actually had a stacked set of Netgear unmanaged switches, that were dying under high load because we had Netware and Windows servers and it couldn't deal with both protocols. It took a while to get their support to diagnose that, but when they did, they replaced them for free with better (managed) switches, since the ones we had weren't under development anymore.
Your suspicion is probably correct, but since this is an unmanaged switch it won't be easy to verify. In order to find the culprit(s) you would need to either
This switch is a child to another similar switch and the main network, has anyone experienced a similar issue ?? 
btw I am a developer not a sysadmin, but everyone is stumped on this so I'm trying to get it resolved.  
If it was me in your position, I'd start by replacing the switch with something decent, because that cost is likely to be less than hours of my time trying to debug a random error.
Is the switch on a UPS?  Could you have a power issue? Low or high voltage could hang the device.  Have seen this many times.  Is the switch stacked with other devices.  Have seen heat send the switch into a hung state as well.
Hi recently we had wast appeared to be a bad switch, we replaced the switch with a NET-GEAR JGS524 10/100/1000Mbps Gigabit Ethernet Switch unmanaged switch.  The same problem is still occurring with the new switch and at random intervals the switch will loose all network connectivity.  The even stranger part is that unplugging and replugging the switch does not seem to fix it but disconnecting everything and going back to an old d-link 100mbps resolves the issue.   If we wait a while and put the 1000mBPS back on it works.  The only logical explanation is that something is hammering the switch(s because this is not the first one or make/model to exhibit this behavior) and crashing the hell out of it to the point where it won't easily reset.  
There are simple managed switches available that will allow traffic mirroring to a dedicated port. This could be used to monitor the entire traffic using something like wireshark, and these switches are not as expensive as fully managed switches.
Then you'll have decent quality hardware that will be able to take a thrashing that inferior hardware probably won't be able to cope with.