I daresay this is subjective, but I find it a bit questionable - I'd also agree with what v.oddou says, although this assumes you're trying to get things to look 'realistic'.
To me, the picture of the various fruit doens't look like 3 pieces of fruit on a white background; it looks like 3 different pictures of fruit, probably because the different colour shadow hints at them being in a different context.
Now, to the matter of whether to use it in your game. If you're going for a painterly art style, then you could certainly include it, though it will require some additional coding of shaders to implement it (which you could well end up doing, anyway, depending on how sophisticated you're making your non-photorealistic rendering system).
Even in reality this looks a bit strange! So my answer would be : while it's an interesting notion and possibly worth experimenting with in some still images (or finding examples), I'd expect to find it's not worth putting the effort in to calculate the shadow colour.
Wouldn't it seem a bit strange to see things in a row of different colour, with different coloured shadows ?
The complementary colour thing is actually illusory. Set up a lemon on some white paper and photograph it. The shadow will have yellow in it, not purple, due to the yellow light being scattered off the lemon.
Ofcourse the other jiob of shadows is to give a hint at how high off a surface an object is. No shadow = you can't tell whether it's 1 for above or 40 ft (or whatever the units are). If there's a shadow of any sort, your brain does the calculation for you and yo have a stab at guessing when an object will bounce, or whether it's possible to run under it etc. For that function, I'd think just a greyscale shadow mixed in with background colour, if possible, would do the trick.
There's also the odd natural effect when there's more than one source of light, of different colours. If you had a few coloured lights giving basically a white light mix, un-shadowed background would give a mixture of all colours but if there's a shadow blocking say blue light, the shadow may look relatively reddish.