A laptop works great as a server once you set the power options properly.  You have built-in protection against power loss, assuming your battery works.
In a normal situation you should not disconnect from your network on a windows machine. However if this happens in your situation I would need more information to debug this.
You probably mean having your remote access software become available again after a sudden reboot.  For this, whatever solution you select will need to be installed and run as a Windows service.  In this way, when you start the remote client, you can log in if you aren't logged in.
Can't you just change the Power Management options in the Control Panel, so it doesn't shut down down the PC and drop from the network?
I'd like to have it running 24 hours a day as a server, to do this. I'll use a remote access system like team viewer.
As for the shutdown behavior, make sure that in your Power Management all settings for shutdown/sleep/hibernat/whatsoever are disabled or set to your likings.
Finally, go through Advanced options and change things like "PCI Link State Management" to "Maximum Performance." or something that makes sense for what you are trying to do.
One thing to keep in mind is shut your laptop screen before you go.  No need to have the LCD backlight burning while you are gone.
When TeamViewer is installed it will automatically install itself as a service. Thus as you are logged in you will be able to lock and unlock your pc. Take notice here that you won't be able to log-in when you are logged of. (This just doesn't work like that).
I'm not entirely sure what you mean by "re-join" the domain as systems can only be removed from a domain by going to sysdm.cpl or when your system administrator makes changes in Active Directory.  Loss of network connectivity doesn't cause this.
Then, select "Adjust when the system sleeps ..." or similar at the left and change each setting to Never (you never want the system to sleep - whether or not you want the display or hard drive off is your call but I'd set that to "Never" as well.)
VNC can do this, but something tells me you are depending on the fact that services like Teamviewer act as an "intermediary" in order to work without you having to open router ports and deal with NAT.  Teamviewer allows installation as a service and it did not take much effort to find their PDF documenting the simple process.  You probably have to buy a valid license for Teamviewer to get a permanent password, which seems like its required. Other services like LogMeIn, etc. I imagine would be similar.
Press the Windows key + R, then type powercfg.cpl, then Enter.  You'll be brought to the Power Options.
I've got a windows 8.1 laptop (Dell). I need to configure it remotely over the next few weeks (I'll be out of the country). 