For P=NP, we can see a lots of example where it seems P≠NP. But in some particular cases, we have strange things. If P≠NP, there are an infinite number of classes between them, so we should find some problems in NP that are not in P, but are not NP-complete. We don't know any of them, and most candidates were proven to be in P.
You can do a lots of experiments on speeds and velocities, and you will obtain overwhelming evidence to validate Newton's laws. Of course, you will see some very strange things in very particular experiments, like the speed of light in moving water, or some astronomical events. But your overwhelming pieces of evidence will say to you : Newton is right and those laws are what you need
Yes at least Scott Aaronson believes that $P \ne NP$ is a law of nature. He proposed the following formulation 
I'm not sure I understand. A physical law (of the kind you indicate) is a mathematical expression of a model (in that example, relativity) that claims to capture reality. A physical law can be proved wrong if the underlying mathematics is incorrect, but it can also be wrong if the underlying model changes (for example, newtonian mechanics). P vs NP is a specific mathematical conjecture that is true or false (and might be provably or not)
"The NP Hardness Assumption: There is no physical means to solve NP complete problems in polynomial time".
What you think about this problem depends on where you want to look at. I would not be surprised if P=NP. 
1) Can we we regard $NP \ne P$ as a fundamental principle of computational complexity theory, even before we can prove it?
He gave a nice talk at the University of Waterloo titled Computational Intractability As A Law of Physics
The statement P≠NP can encoded as a statement $\phi$ about natural numbers. Since $\phi$ is either true or false about the naturals, the answer to the question is a purely mathematical one. This is definitely not a physical law which is subject to the nature of the physical world that we live in. 
I think that there are good reasons to answer 'yes' or 'qualified yes' for all these three questions.