Another solution we're looking at implmenting is Symantec's "Enterprise Vault" especially if you're doing disk-disk-tape or have the tape storage available to shuffle files off to.
If your environment isn't so relaxed you might want to look into Sun's SAM/QFS which lets you push snapshots offsite.  I'm sure that other vendors have similar products.  I have friends in heavily regulated environments who use this and are happy.
Contrary to what you expect this wasn't pirated stuff but their own video footage and music from the school band.
I was a sysadmin at a school and all students had network accounts. I wanted to encourage the use of computers so I removed the quota limits on the home directories. For most students this went well but some filled up their directory quickly with gigs of video and mp3.
You get a limited amount of backed up storage, and, this is limited by us being able to actually backup that data.
We use the default Microsoft quota system on the file servers, specifically when it comes to home drives.
(*) The down-side of quotas of any kind is that it encourages users to start using C:[profile]mydocuments for data. In our case, storage is a dear commodity due to our inability to convince the powers that be to invest in it, so we have to exert downward pressure on data-growth on the centrally managed servers.
Directory quotas. This simple method has helped put a lid on storage growth. By making users request quota increases, and charging them for the increase, it helps users police themselves.(*)
This works in an environment where we don't have regulatory requirements to save and audit everything, and, we have users who can make the distinction between important and not so important storage.
So in the end I only needed a script which made up some nice statistics of the file usage, if a home drive was filling up more then ten times the average I would have a look at it and suggest a better way of archiving. Mostly this was just a list of the biggest files and last access time. Really misbehaving students would be put back into quota but that situation has not risen during my employment there.
Other than that, one of our admins down south of us has a tendency to let the users' project spaces fill up, then encourages them to run duplicate finders and large-file/last-accessed programs such as "Doublekiller", "Easy Duplicate Finder" and "JDisk Report", which is one of my personal favorites.
Unfortunately, putting these kinds of things in place after the fact are the kinds of things that user-revolts are made of. If you're starting something from scratch, then that's the perfect time to roll this kind of stuff out.