Audit information should include at least: user who created/changed the record, date/time of the creation/change, nature of change (insert, update, delete).  You may want to use logical deletion (i.e. a 'Deleted' flag) if you have the option of doing so.  Otherwise you need to capture the user and date/time from the session and put these on the deletion record, probably along with the last state of the record.  If this is not available from the connection (often the case on N-tier apps where the user is not being impersonated at the database level) then you need to find some other way to get it.
CDC doesn't include the WHO when captruing data changes; only the what and the when.  If you don't need to know who made the change then CDC will work but if the WHO is as important as the what and when then sadly, CDC falls short; very short.
Don't bother tracking audit data on a per-field basis.  It's much easier to have an audit table with the same structure as the main table and timestamp and user information tracked on the table.
If you're using SQL Server 2008 Enterprise Edition or newer, you may also consider using Change Data Capture, which:
My company is changing from a distributed Access Database model to using a centralized SQL Database.  The datatables were designed such that all of the tables have a modified date.  In discussion it was suggested that since we will be creating a trigger on each table to handle the modified date perhaps we should have the trigger also log some information to an audit table.
For example, a trigger fired when a record is inserted into the Currency.Sales table is created using the following SQL
Then, the trigger must insert the computer name where INSERT was executed, the user name of the person who inserted the record and the name of the application used to insert the record. Triggers leverage built-in SQL Server functions to get these values:
It means that when a trigger is fired, all this info has to be collected from a database or SQL Server instance and stored in an auditing repository
For the audit I'm looking at capturing the table name, column name, date modified, row id and the username of the person making the change.  Is there any information I'm not thinking of that I should be capturing that might help me avoid future pit falls?
Is this the best way to setup auditing so that we can track who is changing information or is there a better way?  Links to articles on the subject are welcome.
You can do this via auditing triggers which provide auditing data changes as answers to the following questions: