So I put in the full URL of "https://bowser.gruff.org/admin", and this time Chrome offered to save my password.
I had the same issue with my site. It appeared that email and password input of sign in form had no name attributes. When I added them and refresh page chrome showed me "save password" popup at the same moment
Also check that you are signed into Chrome with the account that you intend on being signed in with and that the sync settings are correct. It could be some weird sync issue where it is saving them until you close and reopen the browser or somesuch.
When I first connected, I left off most of the URL, just entering "bowser/admin", which worked (because of sufficiently satisfactory name resolution). However, I got a warning from Chrome (Chromium, actually) that warned that the https site was not secure; I just went into the Advanced settings and told Chrome to ignore the security warning, and was able to log in. But Chrome never prompted me to save my password.
After a couple of days of this, I came and found this site, and after trying other things unsuccessfully, reset my Chrome settings to the default ("Settings" / "Show advanced settings..." / "Reset settings"). Then when I reloaded my page, I again got the security error, and noticed the URL address bar had a red flag with https X'd out, and realized maybe Chrome is not saving passwords on insecure https sites.
None of these suggestions worked for me. I found a helpful link in the Chrome forum that suggests that this happens because your Chrome profile can become corrupted. Here are the steps to take to create a new profile and get your password saving working again:
In Chrome's settings (navigate to chrome://settings/ or choose Settings from the... menu?) make sure that you have both "Enable Autofill to fill out web forms in a single click" and "Offer to save passwords I enter on the web" are checked. These are under Passwords and Forms and you'll need to click the link to show advanced settings.