So when your drive letters change, or you have to move your virtual machines, delete the linked directory (not the one with your stuff, the 'shortcut' directory) in your documents and make a new one to the new location of the virtual machines. VMWare will see the same files in the same place inside of your documents folder, but the real files will be in a different place.
It should be decrypting the files as the computer uses them as long as the drive is always in that computer, another computer without GuardianEdge wouldn't see the files.
Something that will be extremely useful if you're going to have problems with drives and drive letters is to makes a liked directory to a folder on the external hard drive.
I'm not sure what kind of problems you'd come across if they just hammered in an encrypted file system right on top of your original files, so if you're missing files, i think that's why. I don't know of a fix for this as i don't know where the files went, if it works without reverting to a snapshot, use this as your golden moment and back it up as is in case of another file outage...
Your computer needs the NT file system (NTFS) and if you have Window XP or anything higher, it should. You can open the command prompt and type: mklink /J "C:\Users\Username\Documents\Virtual Machines" "X:\My Work Files\VMWare". This command will make a folder (looks like a shortcut, but it is not a shortcut) inside of "C:\Users\Username\Documents" called "Virtual Machines" (Virtual Machines is VMWare's default directory for the user's virtual machines) and it will hold the files of "X:\My Work Files\VMWare", which would be your encrypted folder on your encrypted hard drive, every program will see it as a standard folder that holds files, and when a program like VMWare goes to access the files, it reads the successfully, just off the external hard drive, but it still thinks it's going after files in your documents, there shouldn't be problems with any programs when using this.
Oh, wow, trying to search "GuardianEdge" on google didn't dive me a home website to their software... Well i am almost 100% sure it has to be encrypting the contents as encrypting the communications would require the removable hardware to be familiar with the encryption.