Here  is a link to Cisco's explanation of cable types.   At a minimum you should be using CAT 5  cable, this gives minimum error rate for 100BT and lower.  With Gig-E widely available, CAT 6  cable is needed for the length run you state.
It could be that you are using an incorrect category cable.  You didn't mention what speed you are using. 
I have had a cable of 30M be faulty, and a cable tester (albeit a cheap one) showed it as OK / didn't detect a fault.
Remember:  the standards only promise maximum lengths.  Cheap card manufacturers are not obligated to reach those maxima.
Cat 5, 5e and 6 cables are twisted pair, 8 strands of copper twisted in pairs with the four pairs twisted slightly around each other.  This is highly noise resistant, but if exposed to a strong signal for long enough, the signal will intrude.  Florescent lights were notorious for this, but they have gotten better.  Anyway, check the cable path and make sure the cable is not running parallel to power cables or next to anything like a florescent light fixture.  And check the ends of the cable too.  If they were not made properly, there could be cross talk (normally be discovered by a tester), or maybe they are not seating properly in the jack.
On top of that, the connection itself matters as well. If your connection is 100BaseT it is shorter than 100BaseTX
The kind of ethernet cables that I find to be reliable, have been one with a rugged jacket, they are expensive, and maybe a better quality build too.
There is no reason to believe that a particular NIC's line drivers will actually push electrons all the way out to the Standards's maximum lengths.  I have had exactly the problem you describe fixed by replacing one instance of a NIC with another instance of the same NIC -- same part number, same lot.  I've also found that some NIC models just cannot push signal the full length of a perfectly good maximal cable.  Discovering this can be done with an oscilloscope and some messing about.
Induced noise might be the most common.  When you have a long cable (61 M is long) there is a good chance it will run into problems.  Pulling that cable to put it in place can stretch the copper inside (not very likely, but possible).  But more likely is that the cable is running parallel to other EM conductors (Power Lines).  If it remains close to a power line for a long enough distance, the Power line will induce capacitance and voltage onto the ethernet cable.
I used to get cables from a company that specialised in cables, but I just found them bad quality! But when I got a few rugged cables  (and it would have been a specialist company making them), I found those were very reliable. So, maybe as a rule of thumb to get a quality cable, you could look for rugged jacket ones from a company that makes the rugged jacket ones, if you're willing to pay the price for such cables. 
I had the same thing once when I used a dual IDSN cable instead of a normal LAN cable. The length of an ISDN cable is shorter than a cat5e UTP Cable, but they look exactly alike. I believe this dual IDSN cable was cat3, 20m. It only worked if we had a hub or pc at either ends, and the cable could not be made longer by just extending it with a plug and cable.