Set 2.4 channels because the spectrum range is 11 channels but only 3 non-overlapping channels (1,6,11) of 5 frequencies apart give best chance of 
For Android devices (with Kit Kat or Lollipop) there is actually an 'Advanced' setting under WiFi to select which band you want to use: Auto, 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz.  For this I always select 5 GHz to get the fatter and fastest band with my AC router.
But the advantage of just having one (1) name for SSID avoids my confusion as to which name to use for 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz.  I just allow my devices pick the band it is capable of.
I think I found a solution for Androids that prioritize the 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi band over the 5 GHz band with the same SSID if you access a dual band router at home for example. If both bands have the same SSID find out which band your Android device is currently connected to using the free inSSIDer app. My was connected to channel 6 instead of channel 161 (my desired 5 GHz channel). Move to a location where you can confirm that you are connected to the 2.4 GHz band (hit the refresh button as needed on the top of inSSIDer to update) When you verify that you are connected to the 2.4 GHz band, go back to your Wi-Fi settings, you will see your SSID twice with the top one being the 2.4 GHz connection select that and select Forget. 
My experience is that you should not give the different bands the same SSIDs unless you have two dual band routers and set each router with one particular channel for each band with the same name. Example below:
Depending on your network card, you may be able to configure it in the driver.  For example, in Windows 8:
2.4ghz are saturated but give more sustainability at greater distances but I found I can resolve disconnect and interference issues with multiple routers. The same applies to 5.0ghz but I don't specifiy channels as there 23 non-overlapping channels and far less devices interferring and 5g doesn't have to adhere to the Coexistence Neighbor of 40Mhz which prevents for Wireless 2.4ghz in high populated zones (apartments, condos, etc) from getting jammed.
using two SSIDs to differentiate between 2.4 and 5ghz network no longer has any merits as devices became much more intelligent. The way this trends indicates which was the "right" path all along.
It would definitely make sense to use one (1) SSID for both 2.4 and 5 GHz band and just allow your devices (smartphones, tablets, laptops, etc) select the appropriate band.
This is better than having to choose the 5 GHz band only setting in advance settings as there will be many other places where you need to connect to both bands. Now I get great Wi-Fi speeds at home instead of competing against the crowded 2.4 band at home. Hope this helps. 
Having different names for the SSID 2.4. GHz and 5 GHz is helpful if you really want to separate your connected devices.  I used to have that setup before.