Mind that this is not the same item as the superficially similar 4 pin mini-DIN connector used in low-power cables for audio, video or serial data. The pins on the snap and lock are thicker than those on the mini DIN, and are arranged in a more four-square, less trapezoidal layout. This is done to prevent introducing, say, 100 Watts to components designed to handle less than one Watt.
I mention the disparity because suppliers will incorrectly refer to the connectors as DIN or mini-DIN. Here's an example, in a Third-party Gateway replacement.
My only suggestion for help would be to look to Daniel Rutter for some information. He lives in Australia and seems to be able to find information on the most random bits of hardware - and since this PC seems to be an Australia-only PC, he might be able to help. You can get a hold of him by email, and you might even make an "Ask Dan" column!
I've seen a power connector like that, but it's on the back of my external HDD case (but not a 19V DC connector). Because the PC is set to take 19VDC, you can't just take out the connector and wire up a power cable. You'd have to find something that can output 19 volts at the appropriate wattage (any other stickers on the PC about that?)
In any event, without a schematic or pin-out and power specifications from the manufacturer, ensuring the proper polarity and voltage across the connection is problematic.
It looks like a milspec connector of some form. I've made more than my share of cables using similar connectors where I worked out of high school :)
The socket shown in the photo is of a snap and lock DC power connector. (If by happy accident you should happen upon one, snap and lock power cables are identifiable by the presence of one or two wide arrows in the plastic covering molded over the plug ends.) Many manufacturers use -- or have used -- this type of connector -- Dell and Toshiba, just to name a couple of the largest.
That is pretty odd! No idea what it is, but if you got it at a charity sale, maybe you can get the cable somewhere like that too. In the US, Goodwill and Value Village often have a pretty large assortment of random cables. It'll take a lot of hunting...