Pretty much all storage io is unencrypted because it doesn't matter at that layer of the abstraction stack. Doubt it? Put a tap on your brocade fibre switch and you will see that fibre channel,just like iscsi and nfs, is all an unencrypted mess - by design. Solving that is a medium problem, not a storage protocol issue. For instance, want secure and encrypted nfs? Created a lan that's encrypted point to point between the nfs client and server using ipsec/ssl/tls or a pure hardware solution. 
Since it's a specific question (What are you all doing), let's answer it: nothing. Most administrators and users just don't worry about NFS security, so everybody uses NFSv3. It's typically a controlled environment (in the sense that only well-known machines can attach to the network in the first place). If somebody gets caught abusing the infrastructure, they get fired or to jail. 
I suspect points 5 and 6 will be the killers here, but here goes (also, this is the point where a table would be really handy, but markdown/StackExchange doesn't support it). 
What I'm actually using is CIFS, in my use-cases POSIX is less important so I haven't had any problems. NFS3 is used in areas where security isn't important, such as my SLES install server. And finally, sshfs/gvfs for simple user-land sharing. Wireline encryption is not deemed needed, so that isn't a meaningful factor for us.
For data that you really don't want anybody to be able to read, you encrypt them explicitly, e.g. Firefox password databases, ssh keys, or pgp keys. You do that because you know the admin could read them on the file server, so network file system security would not be of any help, anyway.
With all due respect, you are completely looking at this problem the wrong way and you should back away from the console for a few hours. 
How about OpenAFS which is still alive and a VPN under it because its only encryption at the moment is DES.
And I'm not touching the distributed file-systems out there. There simply isn't one single thing that does it all. Some come close (CIFS) and some are already there but no one uses them (NFS4 + IPSec, CIFS+IPSec). For some reason a secure network filesystem is something that has been subjected to a lot of compromises over the years.