I'm not entirely sure if this is true of Java applications, but the working directory is generally going to default to that of the application itself or the working directory of the shell that invoked the application (if launching it from a console). So, if your image is in an "assets" subfolder relative to the application, you'd have to attempt to load "assets/android.png" and not just "android.png".
The relevant part of that stack trace appears to be the message about not being able to find the android.png file. Since you assert the file does exist on-disk, the problem is likely an issue with the working directory of your application at the time you attempt to load the file and the file's location relative to that working directory.
When you add a new file to the assets folder ,it takes some time for eclipse to register that a new file is added,as such  FileNotFoundError is thrown. Manualy refreshing the linked folder from eclipse resolved the problem for me.
Also note that because the image appears in an assets subfolder in your project structure, that does not necessarily mean it will be deployed with the final built application unless you've configured your IDE/toolchain (which you don't specify) to do so.
In a pinch, you may be able to use the getAbsoluteFile method of the File object to print the absolute path of the image at runtime to the console or in your debugger. That may help you diagnose where your program expects the image to be versus where it actually is.
Sometimes, you don't need to write "assets/android.png". "android.png" is fine but make sure that the name of the file and the file extention type (i.e. PNG, JPEG, TXT) are matched and correct. Also, it is better to put it only at the create() method (show() method if you're implementing Screen) even the sprite and region if you're initializing it to prevent from getting a Nullpointer Exception error message.
You are instantiating these things in the render loop which is a really bad idea. @Override the create method and create them in there.