You should have a negligible performance impact with most SSDs. Especially with the latest Intel CPUs that can do hardware AES way faster than a drive (any drive) can read or write. My MacBook Pro pushes over 900 megabytes per second with AES according to the TrueCrypt benchmark, and that's a laptop.
That is until I activated BitLocker on my Lenovo T430S. Now the score of the Intel is down to 580 consistently.
Bitlocker in this scheme does not actually do any encryption from the system side (at least for data read/written).  The bulk of Bitlocker in this mode is acting as a "Gatekeeper"  since SED drives still need a means of access control to unlock the drive.  When those are activated in this mode (with W8 and Bitlocker), the drive is initially locked and the system will only show a very small "shadow partition" under 200MB.  This is where the W8 boot files are stored and the unlocking in Bitlocker happens with it interacting with TPM to pass a key to unlock the drive.  
I've been running the most current version of AS SSD on the various SSDs I have around. (Intel, Kingston, OCZ RevoDrive, Corsair, Samsung, Crucial). I run an AS SSD session monthly. Interestingly the Intel is the only one that stayed on a stable 690-720 Score. Probably due to the SSD Toolkit that runs weekly. The others deteriorated a couple of numbers every month.
There are TCG OPAL SSD drives out there.  I have not found a Sandforce based drive that supports this, but Micron has one: Micron C400 SED.  You have to make sure you buy the SED version, not the plain version.  Using an OPAL compliant drive will allow you to use Bitlocker in Windows 8 in conjunction with the drive's encryption (which it's already doing).  
Are you open to running Windows 8?  Do you have a TPM chip in your laptop, and is your laptop UEFI capable?
On my desktop I use 4 Samsung SSDs in RAID0 and I have BitLocker turned on. TrueCrypt on this same machine reports over 5GB/sec for AES. (Two 6-core Xeons...)
However, the laptops had some new fancy Core i5 processors, and chip sets, and could offload the encryption off of the main CPU.
In my experience, Bitlocker does in fact have a noticeable degradation in performance even with HDDs.  With SSDs, the comparisons I've seen seem to indicate the degradation is worse, perhaps enough that a lot of the benefits to SSD is reduced.  In my view, a SED based SSD with Bitlocker management (or another software piece) is the best way to go.
My companies testing of Bitlocker on windows 7 showed that with a laptop with a 7200RPM drive as well as an Intel SSD, they both had about 5% reduction in speed.  However, for the very first task of initializing bitlocker, the HDD took about 4 hours, and the SSD was dramatically faster (both drives were 160GB drives)
That said, the SandForce SSD controller is said to do some internal compression/dedupe (which was proven via benchmarks that used large compressed files that it could not "optimize"). Obviously this is not going to work at all with BitLocker where every encrypted sector will be completely unique and uncompressible. So if you're planning on using an SSD, don't get a SandForce one - or if you do, make sure you can return it if you find that performance really degrades after you turn BitLocker on. 
If you don't want to go Windows 8, you lack TPM (though I assume you have it since they asked you to enable bitlocker), or BIOS instead of UEFI there are a number of software products that can manage SED drives in place of Bitlocker.