At the scale you're describing, I don't think it really matters what you use. All are fine options if they support the hardware you're installing on. I wouldn't have discounted Nexenta, especially since it's more polished than the others. But at the same time, your home arrangement is not their target market.
I highly recommend going for FreeNAS, for its ease of installation, configuration and maintenance, coupled with completeness of features. Recent versions have finally deployed support for external plugins so we'll see even more add-ons in the future.
Please do note that the system you are describing will be useful for one single task only: putting your data in it then seeing the data vanish at a disk failure. Do add redundancy or have your backup ready.
Do a traditional, full install of the latest stable release, and schedule on-site updates when you happen to be near the system. You shouldn't be relying on any form of remotely updating a NAS system anyway.
Since you want to be able to remotely upgrade you may consider running your ZFS server under VMWare ESXi.
For around $200 you could grab get a Motherboard with remote IPMI 2.0 / KVM over IP capability.  Most have the ability to boot remotely using an iso file via the KVM client.  As long as you have access to the network there's not really anything you can't do remotely.
I've run a Napp-It All In One setup on fairly similar hardware (HP Microserver N40L).  I've found the performance difference between ESXi and bare metal negligible (gigabit is usually the limit, or in your case, probably the one hard drive).  Basically you install The VMWare ESXi Hypervisor (you can install it to a USB thumb drive).  Once you have OpenIndiana (or NAS4Free) up you share your ZFS volume back to VMWare using NFS so all your guests can take advantage of being on ZFS storage.  You really need 8GB or more for a ZFS NAS with 3TB... but to hobble along on 4GB I would dedicate at least 2GB (preferably 3GB) to OpenIndiana so you would still have some left for VMs.  CrashPlan runs on OI just fine so you'll easily be able to backup your ZFS host and all the guests.