The processors give you about 6 times the CPU grunt of the older Intel, RAM has (I think) about 2-3 times the bandwidth of the older Intel, Hard disk subsystem is about 9x the IOPS 6x the throughput of the older system. No real surprise there, I'm sure you'd figured that out having selected the components. 
I assume the PE 2970 running ESXi will handle the "load" with absolute ease, but I'm planning on adding development environment VMs for Java/Grails & Ruby on Rails (both CentOS 5.5) and Windows 2003 Server, which will all be routed via one of the NICs (primary NIC will be dedicated  to CentOS 5.5 LAMP VM).
My rule of thumb is that you can consolidate at about 2 real machines to 1 core that's virtualized as long as the services you are migrating aren't super CPU bound.  With a 12 core host you can probably put 24 VMs on it comfortably as long as you have the RAM and IO.  You're not going to be able to do better than a 6 disk RAID 10 in that chassis so that looks good.  If you are allocating 8GB of disk per VM for a default install then that would be about 192GB total which should be pretty close to how much space you actually have.
The new hardware should perform better than the old stuff. Your disk I/O should be markedly better since you'll have more platters involved, and they'll be rotating faster. The environment you describe doesn't look terribly disk I/O bound as it is, so you're more likely to be constrained by memory. At first the environment should be markedly faster than the old one. As you grow, you may end up with some CPU problems as runaway dev-processes chew resources, but that can be limited by not assigning every VM its max VCPUs. Looks solid to me.
If you allocate 1G of RAM to each VM you can easily run out of 16G of RAM.  If you can afford it and if you think that you will end up creating enough VMs to need it, then try and get 32G instead.  I think that will be better sized to the capabilities of the host so that there is no particular bottleneck, you'll run out of disk, cpu and ram all at the same time.  Better to get it now than try and put it in later, you may not want the risk and downtime of fiddling with the hardware or you may not even be able to get RAM for that kind of host at a reasonable price down the road.
How will the above server perform compared to traditional bare metal server I am running currently? Current server is a 5 year old PE 1425, 2X 160GB SATA, 2X Intel 2.8ghz single-core, 2GB RAM.
Note sure where the bottleneck will be performance-wise in the PE 2970, but trying to account for issues now before I take the plunge. I'm buying a Cisco ASA 5505 for the firewall as well. 
In typical environments I'd be looking to consolidate 6-8 "average" servers similar to the baremetal one you describe onto one of these when virtualizing. The 2970 is a pretty good mid range server and the 6 Core AMD Instanbul Opteron CPUs are quite good at virtualization as they support NPT/RVI.