There is also the chance that your computer is running a process in the background that doesn't require much CPU but does require constant access to the filesystem.  This could be a regular application, it could be a process that didn't close properly and is stuck trying to do things with the harddrive constantly, or it could frightfully be some kind of spyware if you haven't ran any spyware checks recently.
The light is a Hard drive light and when its briefly blinking every so often you may think its doing alot but really the computer isnt really doing much. my light blinks once every 3 seconds so its not doing to much. 
The LED on the front of your computer is for the harddrive, not the CPU.  There's a strong chance that your files are scattered in bits and pieces on the harddrive plate, which means you need to defrag your computer (if running Windows, go to Start > Programs > Accessories > System Tools > Disk Defragmenter) which might take some time, and try not to use it while it's defragmenting.  This should drastically speed up your computer when you're accessing the filesystem (most of the time).
This information is likely to be accessible in the same place on Windows 7. If you are running XP or before you'll need to make your own graphs in perfmon and/or use 3rd party tools, such as some of the very useful sysinternals utilities, to get the same information.
I'm guessing you mean the HDD light, I haven't seen a PC with a CPU light in a long long time, is there a lot of HDD activity going on on your machine. This could be something to look at. 
The memory details may be helpful for diagnostics too. The faults/sec and faults/min figures indicate how much disk->RAM activity is happening. Don't let the work "fault" worry you - a hard page fault just means a processes accessed a page that was currently available in RAM for that operation so the OS needed to read it from disk (either from the program's file or swap space) or make a new copy to write to if it is a copy-on-right page. If you are seeing a few page faults per second during normal operation, or even a few tens, this is quite normal. If you are seeing many specially if it stays high for a period of time then you machine is likely to be thrashing your swap space implying that you either need to close some programs or install more RAM (or that you have a program running that has a memory leak, in which case restarting that may clear the condition).
Try defragmenting your computer first.  If it still runs slowly after that, then it must be a bad process.  If you have recently restarted your computer (or if you restart it now) and it is still slow, then it is likely spyware and you should run a spyware cleaner to get rid of it right away.  Try Ad-Aware, that usually takes care of most things.
If you are running Windows Vista the default Resource Monitor view will show I/O activity as well as overall CPU activity and memory use. To get to this click Resource Monitor on the Performance tab of Task Manager (to get to Task Manager, right-click your task bar). As well as the graph at the top, the Disk section of the summary below will list disk activity (the closer this % figure is to 100, the more time the OS and apps are spending waiting for I/O operations to complete) and overall throughput. If you click the disk summary row it will given an indication of what processes are actively using your drives.