If you want to take godaddy out of the loop entirely then you only option is to transfer the domain to a different registrar.  You will still need to add your IP as a name server in their control panel.  Again, once this is done, they will no longer be actively involved in processing DNS lookups for your domain.
Like the other answers state, you will have to get ips from EC2 to associate them with your DNS server and create nameservers like:
You should pick up a couple of Elastic IPs (i.e., static IP for EC2 instances) and associate it with your instances running the DNS server in EC2.  You basically need a static IP for your name server in the WHOIS configuration at GoDaddy.
Well, to make that work you'd need to register the IP (And a hostname, like ns1.mydomain.com) as a DNS server and tell godaddy to use that server as the authoritative one. It'll show up on the whois information something like this (whois'd serverfault.com as this example):
As I'm planning to configure a DNS Server I would like to make mydomain.com accessible to the world throught my DNS Server instead of using the godaddy DNS. After adding an A record  to my DNS Server what do I need to do in order to let other DNS Servers and the world know mydomain.com exists and is located at my DNS Server?  
So, if you go to the godaddy control panel and add your IP as the name server for your DNS, then this will get registered at the .com root, and any lookups from that point forward will go directly to your DNS server.  Nothing will go via godaddy.  
Because you registered your domain with GoDaddy, you WILL HAVE to tell them what ip address(es) your DNS server is using. As your registrar they are they ones who will let the internet know what DNS servers should be authoritative for your domain.
After you do this, all requests for mydomain.com will be sent to your DNS server (Assuming it's IP doesn't change, that will sort of break things if it does) by the root DNS servers.
A registrar will always be involved in DNS - someone has to mediate between you and the .com root server to say where the name servers for mydomain.com are. Note that once the registrar has registered your domain into .com, they are no longer actively involved, unless they are also the DNS authority for your domain.  All registrars provide a mechanism for defining a different authority for the domain.  
You purchased your domain with them, so they will play a part. As far as your DNS goes, once you register your nameservers with GoDaddy and the internet recognizes your new nameservers, then you have full control of DNS and your main zone file. The only time you would need to deal with GoDaddy were if you planned on changing nameservers or for your registration.
Right now mydomain.com is accessible to the world because I made an association at godaddy's configuration page, which tells mydomain.com is located at x.x.x.x.