Or in my case,  just opened a second Google account and gave user name/password to family members who wanted to see the photos.
As to sending the file, you could use http duhshare.com, which is a peer to peer sharing website, and there is no need to install anything. It was featured in LifeHacker.
If you are uploading many pictures, it may be a good idea to compress them. Somebody mentioned a .zip file, but if you think the people you're sending the pictures to are tech-savvy enough, you could be better off using a .7z or .rar, since the file size will be considerably smaller. You can create both archive types with 7-zip if you are in windows, and many other programs in both windows and other OS's. just google it
(1) Using the public folder. You will be supplied a URL which you can send to your friends. This is less secure as someone else can download the images (if they somehow manage to randomly guess your URL). One workaround is to zip all the images, then password protect the archive. You can then send the password to your friends separately.
The point is that he can start viewing the pictures without downloading them all at once, and that you need not upload any individual pictures.
If you want to share a lot of files instantly, you could use Opera Unite. You install the browser Opera, you enable Unite, you download the Opera Unite Firesharing plugin, you assign a shared folder on your disk through Opera, set a password for it, and you give the link of your filesharing (you will see it there) to your friend. That way, he can browse the folder on your disk through his browser without downloading anything, until he clicks on a picture to view it in his browser.
If he wants to download all the pictures with one click, you could put all the pictures in a zip file, put it in your Unite shared folder that you made earlier, and he will see it instantly in his browser, so that he can click to start downloading the entire file.
Dropbox acts like a folder on you computer. All you need to do it to drag and drop. You have 2 ways of sending the images:
You can post a private album to picasa, and then send people a URL that includes an authorization key.