It is also not good to block ICMP if you use ping for server monitoring - but I guess you already know that ;-)
I would also double check that you're not seeing something using DNS as it seems to be the most abused system for these type of attacks.  Verify that you don't allow DNS Queries from your WAN to hit your local recursive DNS server.
Once you have your outbound traffic under control if it continues to be a problem you can work with your ISP to try to block the abusing traffic.
**Also quick edit, we are on a 100MBPS port and the current firewall is able to block generic  DDoS attacks excess of 600MB without breaking a sweat.
I recently have been getting hit by an attack that is very small around 70MBPS but causes TONS of upload...All signs point to ICMP. I realized in my firewall I have CSF firewall running on CentOS, that I had no limit on my outgoing ICMP rate...Woops. :P
Sounds like a reflection/amplification attack if you're seeing a lot of traffic going out.  Unfortunately you can't do much about the 70mbit that's hitting your firewall but you can try to minimize how much traffic is leaving your network.  I haven't seen ICMP used for this for a while.  It's normally DNS.  
Anything else I should block? We are primarily game servers so obviously blocking all incoming ICMP traffic is a no no. Or is it? That's why I'm here :D
We use Cisco hardware firewalls but we block everything (including ICMP, literally everything) and then only allow specific IPs and ports. This is obviously more effort to ensure things work properly but it also definitely lets me sleep well an night.
But I would rate limit ICMP if you're finding that it's being abused.  Also these sort of attacks normally appear to come from a single ip or netblock.  These are spoofed so that the reply floods their target.  You can block these ip addresses and netblocks pretty easily.
Blocking all ICMP is definitely not a no-no, so I would go for that, at least as a temporary fix if some customers/gamers complain that they cannot ping your servers.