so now i put tags in tedious filenames(e.g a folder named """[bach][classic][piano]xxxx(ape)"""), classify the directory tree with one attribute (say author/field/genre), and use a software named 'everything' to maintain and search list of files.
If you talking about music library software, then you should first try Windows Media Player which comes with Windows by default.
I moved from the Zune software (which is also very great) because I was in need for the Smart Playlists as I want my entire music collection rated which allows me to remove bad songs and more easily find and listen to the songs I like. And for discovery there is always Grooveshark or Last.fm if you want to pay, the Genius sidebar does show some songs which you don't have too.
With external software, you have many choices, including WinAmp, SongBird, and MediaMonkey. I would highly not recommend iTunes, as you will just be digging yourself a hole.
I used to keep all my music in albums, back in the day when CD's were popular. I long since retired that notion and just dunk all my well tagged music in a folder named, "well tagged"
Song bird might be for you. But if you're a hard core music junkie, foobar might be the ultimate choice, if you have time.
audio books should belong to the same album, thus they shouldn't be a problem. I use plain old wmp 11. My mom uses winamp, which isn't bad at all.
about indexing and searching: 'everything' or windows search are able to put file content into index. But since tags are just contained in filenames, periodically execute "tree /f >filename.txt" and "grep TAG filename.txt" performs almost the same task.
Are you wanting to just view them in a library, wanting folder organization tips, help with finding software, what?
Another good feature is the Genius which can get you a list of similar songs for a song, in that way I pick a song that sounds great for a dinner party and click the Geniuis button, and tada, the list that show up is pretty accurate to pick songs that fit for my Dinner Party. Once I went through the list I can then pick the best song out of that list again and I'll have a Dinner Party Playlist up in minutes.
However, iTunes has good searching capabilities, decent GUI, good assistance for making backup copies. Super-easy and convenient restore from backups.
It's great to organize your music collection, at least that's what it does for me. Besides that I like the Smart Playlists you can make for example "Music I Have Never Listened To", "Unrated Music", "Best Rated Music", "Music I Haven't Heard For A While", ...
Like all other critics, I originally didn't like iTunes at all, until my wife gave me an iPod for christmas, and I gave it a fair chance. - Now I really really like it.