It also means you're back up is not reliant on your ISP/Intenet connection, the remote back up site being up and running, and your data is in your control! You can check the backed up data to check integrity. 
You can check out Amazon Glacier, you are uploading your files to AWS infrastructure so failure rate is low. But according to their terms, you do not get compensation
I know you asked for online but due to the amount of data you may be hard pushed to get it for the cost.
One a week, a program copies my PC to the machine (but I also have the ability to copy when I want). Since it's local, the back up is very fast as it only backs up amended / new files. Therefore, I have a copy on my PC, and 2 on the NAS drive (1 version mirrored). The good thing about a NAS is, you can power it down and take it with you. Yes, this is hassle but the only solution for me as I don't have an offsite copy.
I would buy a NAS or some simlar large storage device, backup to that locally. Then mirror that somewhere online, probably Amazon Glacier.
The first question one should answer when deciding on a backup strategy is "What is my recovery plan?"
I would separate your requirements and not have them all fulfilled by the same "provider", specifically the "redunandancy" and "online to protect against fire or theft" requirements.
The only issue with my solution is as already stated, it's not online. If online is a 100% must then I guess this suggestion is useless. Again, I know this isn't a direct answer but maybe it's helpful. 
Any way, just as a consideration this is what I do. I have a QNAP with 4 x 3 TB hard drives. 2 of which are set up as RAID - this means I actually can only stored 2 x 3TB (6 TB) because the other 2 hard drives are a mirror image (and please note, a mirror image includes mirroring corrupt data). The good thing about RAID and QNAP is it monitors the disc's life - as soon as it reports a disc is failing, bin it and stick in a new hard drive which then sync's to the other providing you 2 copies again! (and again, RAID is not foolproof but outside the scope of your question so I won't go into detail). 