4) Allow players to report their opponents. This is a necessary catch-all to prevent anyone finding some annoying way around your policy. Like, maybe being so verbally abusive that the opponent drops just to get out of there, or continually disconnecting and reconnecting to stretch the game length, or stonewalling to avoid a loss, or whatever. You can't stop ALL bad behavior, but you can include an in-game mechanism to report it, and then let your customer support department handle the rest.
Granted using this means the scoreboards won't sum to 100%. Since you can DC while good and not record a loss. But the other good player can record a win. Also not summing to 100% means 2 players can cooperate switching off DC player to stack wins.
You can abuse it yes. But doing so might take more effort than just biting the bullet. (If it took 2 DCs to be bad for example you could technically get rid of half of your losses. But it does mitigate some abuse and in the case of less than clever players all abuse).
I'd implement some sort of hysteresis. You can use the carrot and the stick. But picking which to use can be based on track record (you could also do an analysis of their connection and current "win-ability" and use that.). It's how you'd do it in-person hopefully. Simple model:
I think the only way to pull this off would be a matter of the structure of your game. Theres' two ways to make cheating less desirable: punishment or reward. So if you don't want adverse punishment think of ways to reward the player who didn't drop.
2) Dropped connection = you lose, opponent wins. We must assume that if you dropped, it was a drop to avoid certain loss.
The one who disconnected will die once he gets stabbed enough, and the other one will be credited for the kill. Anything more lenient will be exploited.
Instead of the reward from PvP being the loot of the conquered's body (which makes dropping a very bad thing) make winning bestow some reward like exp., gold, or something else entirely (Points? Ranking?). If one of the players is kicked off then the remaining player receives the reward and the player who was kicked off gains nothing but loses nothing. Unless it's a ranking system in which case the player leaving might lose some ranking points.
So not foolproof, but added Bayesian analysis of gamestate+connection could probably detect funkiness and make this scheme bulletproof. (You can defeat Bayesian analysis but humans aren't good at doing this and the math is out of reach for most people, not to mention the time investment to "prime" a fight to get through with DC being okay).
3) Disconnects attempt to reconnect for a period of time, so that a slight net hiccup doesn't force you to lose through no fault of your own. Ideally, the time is long enough to allow someone to reconnect if they accidentally kicked the cable, but short enough that the opponent doesn't get frustrated and fall asleep while waiting. I think we found about 45 to 60 seconds felt right.
1) Players MUST connect to the server, not to each other directly, and you should NEVER pass IP addresses of opponents in the data you stream to the players. This prevents denial-of-service attacks where a player forces their opponent offline for the win.