And finally, it also acts as a windows media server, so you can rip movies or music to it, and then watch them on your tv with a laptop or windows media extender.
Personally, I use FreeNAS, because the only thing I'm interested in is massive storage. I have 6x1TB drives, and it allowed me to use it as an iSCSI target.
FreeNAS... only because the latest RC can do ZFS.  :)  Everybody else makes good points and you can argue forever, but ZFS is the best file system to have for a NAS, bar none.
(p.s. you're bound to get a dozen people on here telling you to use OpenFiler because it's somehow better than FreeNAS. They're entitled to their opinion but I quite like FreeNAS).
The backup is really nice.  You can access it like a file based backup, but you can also reimage a computer from it using a boot disk.  Also, it uses an algorithm that only stores one copy of any given file.  So if you're backing up 5 XP machines, all with the same service packs and patches, it only stores one physical copy of them.. this really saves on disk space.
Without knowing more about your requirements, I'd suggest Windows Home Server.  It really is bone dead simple.  And, it provides redundancy without RAID, which means you can just drop in new drives and start taking advantage of the extra capacity, no resizing of arrays, no rebuilding, you can use different sized drives, etc...  It uses a an algorithm that balances data redundantly across drives.  
It's really a useful tool, and it just works.  Make sure you apply all patches though because there was a data corruption bug in the first release... fixed later, but you want to make sure that is applied.
Sounds to me like you're going to want to use Windows Home Server. FreeNAS is a bit more hardcore, but for that very reason it might not do what you want.
I would have to recomend Windows Home Server for easy of use and functionality (such that my non-technical wife is very happy to manually start a backup of her latop or restore a single file from a given point in time).
It can also act as a terminal services gateway, to allow you to access computers remotely, even when behind a firewall, without configuring the firewall for each computer.
If there are specific features or information you are interested in, just leave a comment and I can try to answer any questions as best I can.