I logged into the network attached drive and attempted to "check" the "foreign disk" but the check failed. But now I was able to delete the original file--in Finder, without using sudo or rm -f or anything like that. It was no longer "busy."
I had a similar problem when the main.css file got locked when changing from one branch to another in Git.  The repo was on a file server and I was connected with SMB. My client is a Mac running OSX 10.10.5 (Yosemite).  
My 2 cents. I had the same problem -- I was using the terminal to copy some files to a temporary location in a Drobo share. It was taking too long so I decided to process them in other way, and ^C the cp command and erased the temporary files.
Then I realized that I could access the server directly.  There, I was able to rm the file and then checkout a new version.  Back on my client, everything was instantly fine.
Read on, because I had a unique situation in which none of the previously suggested solutions worked, but I did manage to solve my problem.
Rebooting the client didn't help.  I couldn't switch branches.  I couldn't git stash.  I couldn't just rm the file.  I was stuck.
I copied the file with a new name, because in my case I wanted to rename it, not delete it. After copying I couldn't delete the original because it was still "busy."
Try lsof filename to see if it's really busy.  One of the most common causes of this is that you're trying to remove a directory that you have a shell open in.
The only way I was able to get rid of this evil zombie file was unmounting the share and remounting it. 
One of the files remained. When I try to erase it, either via command line or Finder, I get the The operation can’t be completed because the item “123.mp4” is in use. message from Finder or Resource busy from the terminal.
Disk Utility couldn't do anything with the drive, because it wasn't just a removable device, it was a remote device, not attached directly to the Mac.
In my case the "busy" file was a .ttf TrueType font file on a "foreign disk" on a network attached drive, and therefore not likely to be opened by the system on startup. The lsof command showed nothing. A reboot of the mac did not change anything. Shutting down the only other computer on the network that might conceivably be using the file did not change anything.
The funny part is that I am able to clobber the file. I can copy other file to it, and cat > 123.mp4 with any nonsense works. The file size even reflects the changes I did.
Fire up disk utility and check whether there is an image mounted which corresponds to that directory name.