There may not actually be a problem with your modem. Since the network stack isn't necessary for a modem, it might just be that your modems OS is either shoddy or runs on inadequate hardware.
You may also want to get a variant of MTR (winmtr is for Windows I think), which can tell you where the latencies are coming in.   The problem could also be that your computer is not fast enough [ at least that used to be the case when I played online games - sometime in the dark ages ].  
When using WIFI you will always be at the whimm of those arround you - you really need to switch to a wired connection to guarantee a stable, low latency connection to your router.    Its quite probable that even when using the best WIFI channel other channels with overlap and interfere with your performance.  (there are only 3 non-overlapping channels in the 2.4 gig band).  Just because its the best channel does not mean its good enough !
The problem is almost certainly not double NAT as this would not have a significant impact on latency.
On the other hand, I wouldn't use a separate modem with a modern router, at least not, if it has a built in modem for the DSL-standard you're using.
I will tell you my story. I went from HORRIBLE LAG/BAD PING/LOW speeds buy upgrading my old all DOCSIS 2 model and sepratre router - to a new DOCIS 3.0 model & router IN ONE! that means there is no need for a entire 2nd unit/processor which only adds DELAY to process signal from the first - and this has DECREASED my PING from 100MS to just a blazing fast and woppping 15ms!!! THe gameplay has improved soo much its like buying a brand new computer or something... Its insane how smooth the game runs now... And doing this change has has increased my down speeds from 30Mbit to 70Mbit - and upload speed has increased from 1.5Mbit to a freken whopping 5Mbit!!! So I can say now the lagg probably came form from the upspeed.. 1Mbit compared to 5x that is bigg difference.. plus the new models use multiple threads/connections - to speed up the overall transfer of data (LESS LAGG) added to that I now dont have to pay the rental fee from the cable company for their stupid modem of $5.99 per month - which means my new model/router pays for itself in the first year and is free for the 2nd or 3rd year.
The cable company had me on a 100Mbit plan, but yet they didnt upgrade the 4 year old model they installed 2 years ago.. That modems MAXIUM CAPACITY IS FREKEN 15 Mbit!!!! So I am surpised I was even getting 30 Mbit with it... Now that I upgraded 70Mbit (7.7MBPS download speeds) and uploads of around 4-5Mbit is amazing compared to 1Mbit (1/4) i was getting before.. Also ping dropped from 100-150ms to 5-15ms - which is BEYOND AMAZING!!
Also make sure you buy CAT-7 cable for that new model/router.. Note that cat5 cables are OLD and not ment for todays world even tho 70% of people still always buy cat5. Buy cat7 cable from your pc/console to the model - cat7 is used for the cabling infrastructure of Gigabit Ethernet. A CAT 7 cable offers performance of up to 600MHz. Put simply, a CAT 7 cable is much muchh better
Do yourself a BIG FAVOR ,buy a router+model in one (DOCSIS 3) that is approved for your ISP - and watch your speeds double or tripe and your ping reduced by 50-150%
Also, in a home user scenario, a cabled connection will have a lower latency (and more bandwidth) then a WIFI connection.