There are so many options with so many different features, your best bet is to follow stukelly's advice and check out the WikiMatrix.
Fitnesse is the easiest to install that I've used, but it is very limited (formatting and file handling). 
One of the big benefits is  that there is a right 3rd party ecosystem for it and many new plugins and features are available.
Windows SharePoint Services has a wiki feature with an easy to use interface and a WYSIWYG editor.  It's provided as a free download for Windows Server. 
What I liked about Dokuwiki is that it did not require a database and was easy to setup, administer and extend through PHP plugins. I have found that the plugins are very powerful and that it was pretty straightforward to create new ones (I am not a PHP expert at all) - se my blog post on this: blog.monnet-usa.com/?p=33
I've been using Trac for project management, SVN repository browsing, and issue tracking, and its wiki is very nice. Of course, it isn't just a wiki, so it may be confusing to have the other features if you aren't using them. Trac is my current favorite.
We have been using Atlassian's Confluence, for about two years now.  It has been great, they have other tools that integrate with it.  It does cost money, but it isn't that much and they even have a hosted option so that you don't need to deal with administration.  Confluence also has a built in WYSIWYG editor and has import/export to Word documents and export to PDFs.
I've used MediaWiki in the past. The set up was tougher, but the wiki capabilities are excellent. It is the software that drives Wikipedia. It is tougher to set up than Fitnesse and Trac, though.
We use Community Server, which has a decent wiki.  Unfortunately it's only in the Professional edition or above, and Telligent has recently gone off the deep end as far as licensing costs, IMO.
I am running Dokiwiki on IIS and used a AD integration plugin to allow Windows Authentication for my users.
I've never administered a Confluence installation, but I've used the wiki and it is great, but not free. If installation and administration is anything like Atlassian's other products, it will be a breeze. Or you can use it hosted by Atlassian and avoid installation entirely.