If you consider network input/output, then yes, useless.  Otherwise, given my example above, the computer has no input or output and it's quite useful.
In any case such a system should have an output though. It's certainly not needed, unless software has been written to demand it, but then the usefulness of the system would probably equal nil. 
I +1'ed Hennes answer, but I want to add it all depends on the definition of a input/output device.  A mouse and a keyboard are input devices, but they fall into the category of human interface devices (HID).  Computers can - and do - work without HIDs.  Many servers operate without a keyboard, mouse, monitor, and other HIDs attached to them.  They are not required for the computer to function.
Years ago, I created MicroPE x64 an extremely slimmed down PE. I actually removed support for most of the hardware including mice, CD-ROM, touchpads, etc. The only one I kept was keyboard support to enter commands into the command line. However, I wouldn't have needed keyboard support for that. I could have easily modded the system to run a batch after start up and do its tasks automatically without any user input or option of intervention. Of course, I would have had to create the batch first and enter meaningful commands, but still, with a sufficient level of automation the machine could virtually gone on forever once it has been set up.
I used this system to run command line compression software which took a long time to finish its task. Once it started, user input was neither necessary nor wanted, so probably this comes close to your concept. May be this gives you an idea of how such a limited system could be useful. I'm pretty sure there are a lot of programmatic goals that don't require multi-tasking and thus could go on forever without user input, such as calculating digits of PI, or contributing to one of the many folding projects. 
However, almost every part of the computer is in some way an input/output device.  The CPU, RAM, bus, hard drive, DVD drive, etc, takes some form of input and outputs data.  Even the computer cases have thermometers that take input in the form of temperature and output that data to the computer.  However, these I/Os are not visible to the user.  
One of the real life devices that probably comes close to this concept might be an airplane's black box which is basically like a computer doing nothing but recording sensor values. It doesn't rely on human input. I'm not even sure if it has an output.
I have a computer in my closet that's been running for years with no input or output devices connected (technically speaking).  It performs some server functionality and I remote into it occasionally.
At some point during the construction, a programmer must input (even if only once) the program, otherwise the device will do nothing. Ergo, computers must have some sort of "input" capability, even if it happens before any instructions are executed.