The main thing to show them is your passion and excitement for the game.   Show them as much of your game as needed to get them to share your excitement.  It is better to risk showing them too much and get them sold on it.
I worry that I give them a copy of the Game Design Document; they will just say thank you and nothing else. Then, several years later, I will see my concepts seeping into games. I have learned from previous experiences that not everyone is honest and that a healthy level of paranoia goes a long way in this world.
Right now I feel like I am at a critical point in development. I am looking at the aspects of the game, from a game play point of view. This means I am past the story, the conceptualization, and now I am dealing with issues of “What specifics do each character have”, “What options and results do the actions of the player have in the game.”
Most of the indie community are self starters. They decide to build games because they have some concept they want to explore and start making it on their own. You aren't going to find an untapped resource of programmers & artists that desperately want to make someone else's work.
If you really want to make your game, then find out how to simplify your idea to match your ability and start building it on your own.
Seriously, the only thing that you should show investors is a completed game (or close to completed). As others have pointed out, they're not going to look at "ideas on paper", and if they did, probably couldn't tell if the idea would be successful or not. Really, who would have predicted that a 140-character-maximum messenging server would succeed?
Game development studios and Publishers do not accept unsolicited design documents. If you send them one directly it will be immediately trashed. Any dev studio has far more ideas than it has time/money/resources to build them and so they aren't looking for stuff from the outside. Also as a legal protection if they are working on something unannounced that has similarities with a document that was submitted to them, then proving they were already working on those concepts can become costly. It's just safer to not look at those things. 
I am Dalilean and I am a gamer. There I have said it. Damn, feels like a weight is lifted from my shoulders… They say the first step is to admit the problem. Now the second step is doing something about it. 