The lack of subfolders is certainly frustrating. I'm going to try organizing my stuff into separate projects in the same solution. Each one has a Queries folder...
But I can't open these queries via Server Explorer in Visual Studio ... however it is then possible to organize queries in one place if they're In Work, SPROC Scripts, UDF Scripts, etc.
You'll have to add permissions to the machines user accounts for Full Control. (Right click the destination folder, Properties, select the machine users, Edit, etc.)
Rambling and ranting here a bit ... in other words I can get the folder structure I want with a DB Project in VS 2013 but if I want to log onto a remote server to test them, I have to access them file by file from SSMS.  Pain in the back side ... I want an IDE that does this.
In SSMS, if you are not already displaying the Template Browser snap-in, go to Menu, View, Template Explorer (hot key Ctrl-Alt-T).
Is there a way I can create "sub-folders" in the project so I can organize my scripts properly? How do most other folks keep their scripts organized? I'm pretty sure if this bugs a novice like me, it must be a real issue for real admin (with potentially hundreds of scripts?)
Sadly SSMS projects don't support subfolders.  If you are talking about the default folder that SQL saves stuff into, yes you can create subfolders in there.  That is just a folder on your hard drive.  That folder is located in "C:\Users{username}\Documents\SQL Server Management Studio\Projects" by default.
You can add subfolders as you like and even nest them (via Windows Explorer or SSMS).  If I am not mistaken the folders are loaded only once per SSMS startup, so you may have to restart SSMS to pick up folder changes from the filesystem.
Adding to Answer 3, above, working around the situation by re-purposing templates at C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server\110\Tools\Binn\ManagementStudio\SqlWorkbenchProjectItems\Sql.
I'm using SSMS 2012 to talk to the SQL server 2012 and Azure SQL servers we use. I admit I'm not a SQL expert so I've been saving most of my SQL scripts for future reference. I've quickly run into 20 or so .SQL scripts in the SSMS project and they are all living under the same 'Queries' folder. 
The best answer I have is saving via SSMS to the file system which I think will respect the nesting of .sql files.  I have to create a Database Project in Visual Studio 2013, in which I can set up folders as they make sense for my product flow.
There is no IDE for doing this sort of project work and yep, in the words of another respondent here, that's sad.
Even then it's like Steve Balmer headed this solution off at the pass.  You can save a file there but when it is opened in SSMS, it isn't opened under that .sql file's name, it's a generic name.  So there's all this rigmarole just to keep your queries, functions, table scripts, sprocs, etc. all organized.