Aside from the miniscule speedup--and possibly good feeling of accomplishment--this provides, there's little that can be done since apparently "Windows Update Cleanup" is coded in a way that, for some unknown reason, proceeds file-by-file, making the overall work horribly disk-bound.
One way to mitigate this problem and speed up the "Windows Update Cleanup" phase of "Disk Cleanup" a bit is to temporarily set a higher priority for the TiWorker.exe process for the duration of the so-called 'cleanup' activity.
Deleting 20 files of 5mb in size will take more time to delete than 10 files of 64mb in size. This is because when system deletes files, it doesn't really delete them (as empty space on a drive can be made of "noise" bits) but just overwrites the front part that says, "A file starts here" with gibberish and then it will happily overwrite that and the following parts later when you want to use the space. In reality, deleting is the same as writing otherwise. 
The thing with disk cleanup, is the things it cleans are usually LOTS of small files (internet cookies, temporary files, etc.). As such, it does a lot more writing to the disk than a lot of other things, and can take as much time as installing something new, due to the volume being written to disk. 
And also, do know that the process is most probably not hung, and will indeed complete someday. To verify this (and to yet further distract yourself during this annoying wait time), you can check the 'Disk Activity' section of Resource Monitor (run "resmon.exe").
In the Task Manager 'Details' pane, find TiWorker.exe and right-click to show a pop-up menu. For 'Set Priority," choose "Above Normal." For me, this increased the TiWorker CPU activity--from averaging around 16%--up to its full potential of 25% (on a 4-core machine). 
Another way to speed up the process is to run the Disk Cleanup for about 5 min. Stop it, then re-start it, and it will whizz through in a jiffy! Also, De-Fragging or Optimizing your HDD/SSD beforehand will speed things up, just remember to de-frag/Optz it again after cleanup.