I've done this and regretted it. As Zoredache says, the extra network interfaces that VMWare creates get put in the DNS against the name of the server, then PCs on the network start having problems connecting to the server. It also broke intersite replication as the other DCs tried to replicate to the VMWare IP addresses. Even if you untick the "Register this connections in DNS" box in the TCP/IP setup for the VMWare networks the damn thing insisted on adding them to the zone file. I never did find a way round this.
This is not a particularly good idea from a security perspective.  The best practice is to isolate functionality like you wouldn't make your public web server also be your central AD server.  Active Directory is a core function of a Microsoft based environment, if your AD is compromised then basically your entire network is open to the attacker.
My theory is this.  When Vmware installed it sets up a couple virtual interfaces for NAT and Host networking.  The addresses associated with these interfaces get would published to the DNS server and screw things up.  I have never tried it to see what happens though.
I have put Hyper-V on a DC. This is OK provided you have more than one NIC and can keep one that isn't configured as a Hyper-V network. You simply disable all the extra synthetic Hyper-V NICs on the DC. Because Hyper-V uses paravirtualisation, disabling the synthetic NICs on the DC does not affect any VMs running on it.
There are compromises of VMWare allowing code execution on the Host OS from a guest environment, as an example CVE-2009-1244 (cve.mitre.org) is a recorded vulnerability.
The biggest problem you will have is Domain Controllers have the disk write cache disabled. That will drag your VM performance down substantially, depending of course on how often your VMs write to disk.
I am in the proccess of setting up a few virtual servers and i decided that our active directory server has the most free resources currently but when i started the install it returned a warning saying that it is not a good idea installing vmware server on an Active directory.
If your server only has one NIC you can still use Hyper-V, but note that you won't be able to run the DHCP Server on the server as it won't bind to the synthetic NIC.