So if you're getting 4 MebiBytes/s and the best you can rightfully expect is 9 MebiBytes/s, I would expect that one of both of your devices either aren't close enough to the AP to get the full 300 megabits/s signaling rate, or there's RF interference getting in the way, or maybe you have the revision of the 4965AGN that only does a single stream on transmit, which would cut its throughput in half.
It would be interesting to know what 802.11 signaling rates your two clients are reporting they're getting, as well as what the AP reports for them.
From what I can find on Intel's website as well as the Wi-Fi Alliance's website, that Intel 4965AGN was created back in early 2007 when 802.11n was just a draft standard (802.11 was ratified in mid-2007, so it's been a full-fledged standard since then). That Intel card has gone through several revisions and recertifications since then, some showing it to be compatible with the ratified version of the N standard, some showing it to be capable of 2 spacial stream operation (up to 300 megabits/s) on both transmit and receive, and one showing it to be capable of 2 spacial stream operation on receive, but only 1 spacial stream on transmit (up to 150 megabits/s).
300 megabits/s - 50% typical Wi-Fi overhead = 150 megabits/sec expected TCP throughput. Unfortunately your other machine is wireless too, and 802.11 requires all traffic between two clients of an AP to actually be relayed by AP (this is called "Intra-BSS relay", and it solves the "hidden node problem" where two clients are each in range of the AP, but not in range of each other), so every transmission from one machine to the other in your scenario has to go across the channel twice: once from the Intel client to the AP, and once from the AP to the Linksys client. So this cuts your expected throughput in half again, to 75 megabits/s. Now convert that to MebiBytes/s and you get a little less than 9 MebiBytes/s, assuming ideal RF conditions.
So let's say you have a revision of that card/driver that support 300 megabits/s operation in 5GHz. It looks like that Linksys adapter is capable of the same. So here's how the math works out.