You should clarify your question with regards to the client requirements, sounds likely to be Windows or possibly Mac OS but nothing like UNIX?
I will also recomend you to separate backup storage and file sharing systems. They will have different load and you will be able to find more optimal prices if you will take different systems. For backup storage I would recommend you to look for solutions that use cloud services, like Amazon S3 They have lower price for storage.
But I think that you will most likely need a fancier system/setup given your access control requirements.  To that end, I have two suggestions:
There are other simple file sharing systems which are pretty intuitive and work quite well but require software such as Dropbox, SugarSync and others).  However, I think these will fall short on the logins/access control requirement you've stated.
Also, in the past we used CentralDesktop and BaseCamp. Both tools allow share files but both are not only file-sharing tools. They are project-based collaboration tools so you can share tasks, calendars, have dashboards and much more... 
On the software free side of things, I would also recommend looking into drop.io but again, I think this will fall short on the logins/access control requirement you've stated.
Your votes and opinions are also of interest, so if you already see your choice here and/or have something to say about it, please vote or comment accordingly.
The small business clients are not necessarily technically inclined, and probably wouldn't be able to cope with SFTP/FTPS/PGP etc. or anything complicated or requiring software on their end, other than a web browser.
Anyhow, the fact that they "probably wouldn't be able to cope with SFTP/FTPS/PGP etc. or anything complicated or requiring software on their end, other than a web browser" really limits your options here.  What about the small business doing the sharing, are they more technically inclined?  (Or are you doing this for them?)
Here is a link to the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Managed File Transfer 2008. This is a nice overview of the leaders in this field.
sharepointhosting is one of possible providers where you may host your solution, but you may google for SharePoint hosting and find a lot of other choices.
Scenario:  A small business wants to share files securely with its clients.  Some of the files are typical (e.g. word processing or spreadsheet docs), whereas some files may be large (e.g. database backups or video clips).