It's information other protocols (routing, QoS, etc.) can use to select an interface, size queues, etc.
Advantage of VPNTTG over other SNMP based monitoring software’s is following: Other (commonly used) software’s are working with static OID numbers, i.e. whenever tunnel disconnects and reconnects, it gets assigned a new OID number. This means that the historical data, gathered on the connection, is lost each time. However, VPNTTG works with VPN peer’s IP address and it stores for each VPN tunnel historical monitoring data into the Database.
I don't think your tunnel bandwidth commands are actually doing anything since you are not running RBSCP. tunnel bandwidth transmit and tunnel bandwidth receive are only used with RBSCP - rate based satellite control protocol.
The displayed BW, txload and rxload counters that you are worried about are cosmetic only (unless the QoS/routing scenarios above apply) and will not -on their own- limit traffic throughput in any way. If you want the counters to display accurate information, configure the following on each tunnel interface:
Even an interface bandwdith command only documents a bandwidth for upper-layer protocols. To actually restrict bandwidth on an interface, you need to use traffic shaping/policing.
As others have mentioned, this bandwidth statement does not actively affect the traffic throughput capability of the tunnel interface- tunnel traffic throughput is limited only by CPU traffic processing capability (if tunnel processing is not being performed in HW- usually not a limitation on most cisco routers unless this is being performed at scale) and the physical interface forwarding hardware. The only exception would be if BW-based QoS policies or custom routing configurations (e.g. non-default EIGRP implementation) were implemented on the tunnel interface, but based on the config you have shared that does not appear to be the case.
Cisco IOS/NX-OS/etc. software does not configure the bandwidth for a virtual tunnel interface based on the physical interface to which it is assigned; instead, it applies a default "bandwidth" statement to the interface that depends on model of hardware and the version of software it is running (on many devices the default "BW" for a tunnel is 8kbps!). 
Check out VPNTTG (VPN Tunnel Traffic Grapher) is a software for SNMP monitoring and measuring the traffic load for IPsec (Site-to-Site, Remote Access) and SSL (With Client, Clientless) VPN tunnels on a Cisco ASA. It allows the user to see traffic load on a VPN tunnel over time in graphical form.