It's certainly not something that can be explained here in all its details, nor something that can be done in a little while without having a broad and deep knowledge of any aspects involved.
Regarding your question, I don't say it's impossible, but it requires a deep knowledge of NOOBS, its internal configuration and config files as well as the Raspberry Pi's partitioning and boot process. 
My suggestion is to make a backup of your data, reboot into the Recovery screen, add Raspbian and LibreElec (OpenElec) to the list of OSes to install and install everything from scratch. Finally, bring back your data. Except you are a Linux  expert, this will be the best way to go without wasting time.
Personally I'm using a FileZilla client on my Windows PC to backup my data from Raspian over sftp/ssh. It's as simple as to enable ssh in raspi-config and then connect to the Pi using FileZilla with sftp and my Pi user credentials.
It starts with the problem that your installed OS already uses the entire free space on your SD card. You would have to change partition sizes, extract partitions from OS images, arrange them correctly on the SD card and finally manually and correctly edit NOOBS' JSON config files. 
Don't waste your time, that's not what NOOBS has been designed for. NOOBS has been designed to make it easy to select and install operating systems for the Pi without having to worry about manually imaging your SD card. There is no hidden option to add an OS to the already installed OSes. 
However, in case you have a good knowledge of tools like fdisk, parted, mount (to extract images with offsets), rsync, mkfs etc. and you are willing to dig into the details of NOOBS, I suggest to start with the NOOBS documentation on Github and the pages in the NOOBS wiki.
Reinstalling software is usually not a big task. I need less than an hour to reinstall and configure a complete development and test environment on my Raspberry Pi 2 inclusive SSH, C#/Mono, Go (golang), LiteIDE, MySQL and more.