Basically, you set it up on an external server, and it tries to attack your network with a whole whack of known exploits.  You can set it for safe mode (where none of the attacks should crash your server), or if you're pretty confident you have everything patched, or can afford to reboot your servers if necessary, for unsafe mode.
On systems with ANY public interfaces, ensure your users have secure passwords by implementing a secure password policy, and by testing the password file with a password cracking utility like john the ripper
Another aspect of layering is "homeycombing", which is essentially multiple DMZs.  At some point you have to have some level of trust between your machines and of the people accessing your accounts.  If you can narrow those points of interaction, you can tightly control the kind of traffic you trust at any point.  For instance, if you separate you interface/app servers from your database servers, you narrow the level of trust.  If your app servers become compromised, those attackers gain a minimal foothold to your infrastructure (that is, in order to continue their attack and attempt to exploit your other servers, they only have those established trust points to use).
This is a bit contrarian, but security-wise I don't differentiate between an internal server and an external server.  Sooner or later someone will make a mistake in a firewall, management will insist a server be exposed because of an important client, Betty in accounting will somehow get a vpn client on her infected home machine, etc.
Don't leave any ports open but the ones You want users and hackers to access. Scan Your own servers from other site every month.
You can further guard against brute-force password-guessing attacks by blocking IP addresses after several failed attempts.  A good tool for this (on linux) is fail2ban 
Then it will provide a very complete graded report for each machine it can see of what vulnerabilities/weaknesses it finds, and rate them as to severity - and even recommend actions to be taken to address the issues.
Layers - you should have multiple layers of security.  For instance, a hardware firewall and a software firewall.  These theoretically serve the same purpose, but having multiple layers protects against mistakes and mitigates consequences of a single layer being exploited.
Regarding blacklisting by default, you should basically shut everything down and demand (even if it's only of yourself) justification for every port you open, username you allow access, app you install, etc.
Your switch can be hacked and someone can tamper with the data. If You don't own the switch, setup a vpn, as per-ip firewall access restriction might not be enough.
They should know how their backup and disaster recovery system is working and how they will recover the system when/if it becomes compromised.