VMWare ESX (the server version you mention) IS in fact more efficient and faster than Workstation but is a bare-metal OS - i.e. it takes over the whole machine.
Also keep in mind that the area where ESXi support is very limited is RAID controllers. I have had many "unsupported" computers (desktops & servers) run ESXi fine sans RAID support. In a development/testing environment this maybe for your needs. If this is the case download ESXi and give it a try on hardware you already own before splashing out some pricy HP or Dell gear.
I think you can do what you need with a few tweaks, in particular I'd max out your memory (it's cheap at the moment) AND switch to a 64-bit version of your OS of choice, or it won't use the memory. You might also consider running the VMs from a different disk and also consider adding more processors or more cores. If you can put some of these changes in place you'll be able to run all of these VMs well enough to keep your knowledge up to date.
If you have any experience with Linux you will find VMWare Server 2.0 on Ubuntu Server 8.04 (64bit) runs very well. With Ubuntu Server, unlike Windows, you run without a full GUI environment which frees a lot of resources for your virtual machines. This is exactly what ESXi does, but as Sascha points out ESXi has a very limited list of supported hardware.
Really you're going to want a separate box. Enter VMware ESXi. Most people don't understand is that ESXi has limited hardware support, it's only designed to run on server class hardware. There are plenty of posts around the next saying How can I get ESXi to recognise XXX or YYY. The short answer is you cant. The good thing is install only takes a few minutes so you won't waste much time figuring it out :) If you put together something like the hardware I've listed below however, you'll have a home virtualization server with performance second to none and will get all your buddies drooling with jealousy :D
We run an extensive VMware ESXi network here for testing, however Server 2008 as a DC uses a lot of RAM. SQL server is likely to be pretty heavy on resources as well.
I put together an dual-quad-core core server with 8Gb RAM and 4x1Tb disks for under $2000, if you've got some spare drives for storage you should be able to put something that will support 4-5 server guests and a few XP guests for under $1000. 