First: Make it your process to tell I/T before you tell the employee that they have been terminated. Have them taken out before they know they're fired.
HR should coordinate with IT before the employee is actually terminated.  This way, IT can remove access before the action takes place.  This is important because it prevents the employee from deleting or removing data that they either a) didn't want the company to see or b) wanted to delete to harm the company (via time loss, research loss, record loss, etc) in some way.
Third: In the event of an "off the cuff" firing, detail someone to keep an eye on the employee until I/T finishes removing their privileges.
Before you start a policy of putting black bags over their head, and dragging them kicking and screaming from the building - consider what future interaction you are going to have with them.
i.e. the most important thing is that you've already got a plan and not just scrabbling around doing what comes to mind at the time. If you have months to think about and develop a plan it'll be so much better than if you think about it off the cuff.
It is also important to have IT not remove any data, for similar reasons as with b).  Companies often need to go back and retrieve the data of prior employees for legal reasons in addition to business continuity reasons.  IT should only grant access to this data to people approved by HR.
As a side note, it's a much more lengthy and immediate issue if it's an I.T. person that you have to let go, given the amount of admin access they may have to everything.
If you need to call a ex-sysadmin a week later to ask how some system you have forgotten about actually works it helps to have dealt with them as a professional not as a potential terrorist.
Second: Keep careful, detailed records of all systems that the user has access to, and remove them in order of priority. Make sure the people in I/T understand whose responsibility it is to remove each piece of access.
Oh and for what it's worth I'd say worry more about physical things (keys, building access, user storage, copies of media) than locking out electronically - most malicious data loss comes in these ways than via purely electronic ways.