I use a mini keyboard with mousepad named Rapoo. it works on 2,4 Ghz with a vey small usb connector , as do most new keyboards and it's working up to 10 meter distance. No setup needed. It costs around 30 Euro.
You can also plug in a Bluetooth Adapter and use a Bluetooth Keyboard and mouse. But you need to configure Bluetooth in SSH (Or I think the latest XBMC has some kind of BLuetooth paring setting)
MIcrosoft Wireless 3000 series just works on the Raspberry Pi (Even the first ones because it uses very little power) The USB emualtes keyboard from boot and does not need software. I used this with XBMC and there is a mouse pointer (not very good though) that shows up when you move the mouse around.
Is it possible to control the Pi from my laptop, using the keyboard and mouse, over the network? I know I can access a remote control from my android phone or through the XBMC media centre's local IP, but what I'd really like is the functionality of the keyboard.
XBMC supports HDMI CEC which supports allot of CEC Enabled TV's (Usually called something else, like Panasonic VieraLink)
Just use the remote control of any device connected via HDMI. For example I can use my satellite box or my TV's remote to control XBMC.
This will give you arrows, enter/back, volume control/mute, and some more stuff. You can use your mouse to click on the buttons, or use your keyboard. Pretty much everything you need to remote control XBMC.
A recommended one is AWX which has a remote control, media selecting, that you can control from any browser on any device.
I'm not totally sure that this will work or how to set it up, as I've never used XBMC on the Pi, but it seems to be a common enough request on the RPi forums, so I just figured I'd mention it. You can find other instructions, sites, etc. by just googling VNC Raspberry Pi XBMC. Should bring up plenty of sites.
I'm surprised nobody has mentioned it, but you could try out VNC. You won't get the greatest performance out of it, as most of the CPU/RAM will be going to XBMC, but if you look here and here there are a few places you can get instructions on how to do this.