Now all my Server Items started showing up in the Local Outlook. So you can now delete / move whatever you want.
I logged in to my company's   webmail, and there I could see my outbox mails of 17MB. I deleted those files and yeah, now my mailbox is reduced - in both Local and Server :-)
They're not wrong. If you have a 'Local Data' tab, that means you are in Cached Mode. Which means that your computer keeps a local copy of the Mailbox data you access. It is entirely possible for this local copy to be significantly smaller than your server-side data, especially if you have a lot of data somewhere that you haven't touched in a long time or have your cached-mode set to "download headers" instead of "download full items".
It sounds like the size problem is lurking in your Calendar somewhere. The simplest way too find that is to do a [ctrl]+[shift]+F to get the Advanced Find dialog. Set Look For to "Any Type of Outlook Item" and go to the "More Choices" tab. Set "Size (kilobytes)" to Greater Than (for example) 1024 (a MB). 
When I compared the size of the subfolders one by one, I found that the my server outbox contains around 17MB which is not getting displayed in my outlook.
In Outlook 2013, if you select your inbox and then on the SEND/RECIEVE tab click "Update Folder" It will sync whatever is on your local Outlook to the server. A regular send/receive command only attempts to download new messages and send outbox messages, but update is a full sync. If you have deleted a lot of items that have not synced, this process can take several minutes. I had a similar problem with a 2 gig box (my local was only 800 MB). It took nearly 30 minutes to sync.
If you have set the "Mail to keep offline" set to 'All', the mail size locally will be the same at server data. If you have set it to e.g 12 months, the lacal data size can be smaller.
That'll give you a list of all emails larger than a meg, which should give you a good start on finding that one big guy.
I found the similar issue. But unfortunately I have not got an webmail. So I went to Account Settings --> Select Account --> Change --> Uncheck the Cached Mode and restarted Outlook. 