College is expensive and consumes a lot of time. To attend full-time you will probably have to find a part-time gig, which may mean leaving your current position, and may also mean finding a new job with crappy pay in exchange for a flexible schedule.  If you try to do college part time you could spend the better part of a decade finishing your undergrad.  You will probably go into debt and in the end you will get a piece of paper that will only make you slightly more employable than you are now.
What does a degree mean? It doesn't mean the candidate is smart. It doesn't mean the candidate has experience. There are two things a degree conveys: (1) the ability to learn and (2) the ability to finish something. Those are two important traits for employees to have. 
Personally, a degree is generally worth it simply because it shows you are willing to jump through the hoops of life and proves you can complete a non-trivial task. I don't think it will be the slam-dunk resume builder, nor will not having one preclude your opportunities necessarily. I would say that all else being equal, a 4-year degree is much better than about any single certification.
I'm going to be a little bit brutal because when I read your "question" I saw a lot of the arrogance that is normal for youth generally and of which I was undoubtedly also guilty at the same age. Incidentally, I was happy when my own kids reached their twenties, because all of a sudden I was no longer an idiot in their eyes.
The really difficult part is the saturation of the college market at the moment. Because of the recession many, like you, have decided to go back to school.  Simple supply and demand, there is more demand on the market for college degrees, so the suppliers have raised the prices.  A 4-year program that cost $50,000 in 2005 now costs almost $100,000.  Same piece of paper.
Another reason I recommend a degree is that it will increase your earnings potential far more than a certificate will. Of course a CCIE is probably worth as much as a bachelors degree to a network consulting company. 
I'm also going to be a little picky for a moment. This doesn't apply as much if English isn't your first language, but your writing needs work. That's one of the things that a college education will teach you - to communicate clearly and correctly. Your random capitalizations in your post do not do a good job of presenting you as a qualified or polished professional.
That said, your real questions is if a college degree will be of benefit to you now and in the future. I believe the answer is YES...but not this very minute.
You mentioned that some people with degrees lack practical experience or even some of the fundamental science behind computer science. That is all too common with a degrees. Different universities, colleges and trade schools have different programs and focus on different things. Hopefully the core elements are present, though certainly tradeoffs must be made in order to give more practical vs. theoretical experience. I think you need to look closely at what schools actually offer as part of the program and see if it matches what you think you (or potential employers) might want.
It's not either/or. For sysadmin work, the certifications are very valuable. But, for almost any job, so is a college education. I'm speaking as someone who didn't complete their AS until age 30, but already had my MCSE and CCA (Citrix), plus a few others.
Certification will always be valuable, so it is not a question of certifications OR academia.  You may or may not choose academia, but the certifications should be your goal either way.
Your "extensive experience" is not as extensive as you believe. You are only 18, a mere hatchling. The only generally accepted means of compensating for such youth and inexperience is with formal qualifications, be they from a tertiary institution of from industry sources. You don't have to like that, I certainly don't, but that's life.
A degree shouldn't always be as much of a 'required' item, but the facts are that for large corporations it often is. @Ceretullis has it right - it shows that you can accomplish something big and somewhat difficult.
Let me start by saying that I also didn't go to university and have seldom regretted it. The few certificates I have are merely to impress during an interview but I personally put no store in them. On the other hand, I have a fair bit of hard earned experience in a number of fields to my credit.
If there are two candidates that seem to be equally qualified, but one has a degree and the other doesn't... my money is on the guy with the degree. 
I suggest you take whatever jobs you can get into for now and spend the next couple of years picking up those bits of paper you and I don't value much but which prospective employers do. Start with the easy to get ones, just to give you a start, and work up from there. You don't have to stop working to do that. You can study on your own and in your own time. Many certification exams do not require you to have taken formal classroom courses, although I believe Cisco are an exception.
If you decide to go back to school, shop around, make sure institutions are accredited and if it's possible consider waiting a few years until the institutions are more reasonably priced.
But, with that piece of paper you will find more doors open up in the long-term, you will make more money in the long-term, and you will have more respect at all levels in the business field in the long-term.