Using SysInternals Process Monitor and comparing editing a .txt file with notepad.exe vs. a .docx file with WINWORD.EXE, the office suite does a lot of fancy footwork creating temp files, renaming, etc. In particular, unlike notepad.exe, WINWORD.EXE seems to fiddle with access control lists. As seen by procmon
Deeper investigation required turning on windows file object security auditing to see what exactly changed. Event ID 4670 shows the the ~WRD0000.tmp permission changes applied (I think word uses this for periodic saving and recovery if it crashes).
The permission change in SDDL (Security Descriptor Definition Language) is a DACL (discretionary access control list part) where it appears an extra ACE (Access Control Entry) was added. ACE (A;;0x1200a9;;;WD) gets added right at the front. This is how I interpreted it:
So I suspect this is why the UNIX group permission gets fiddled with by microsoft office applications.
Then later on, the ~WRD0000.tmp gets renamed to test.docx which I saw in process monitor as a SetRenameInformationFile operation. So in the end test.docx ends up with some of the ACE changes word did for whatever reason.
The extended ACLs for an empty word docx file created via windows explorer  context menu (not yet opened and saved by word)
When checking the samba config, on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, it seems map archive is enabled by default, but that should use the owner's execute bit, not the group execute bit, so that wasn't the cause in my case
"File Permissions and Attributes on MS-DOS and Unix" in Chapter 8. Advanced Disk Shares explains the above nicely.
However, microsoft office products cause weird behaviour and trigger a bug/unexpected behaviour. Even with create mask and/or force create mode set and avoiding the above map or inherit option, I've seen group execute permissions get set when editing documents using microsoft office applications. This doesn't happen with other programs, e.g. edit a .txt file with notepad and permissions stay sane. Office doesn't just create files, it also messes a bit with temp files, renaming and permissions.