They always put in testimonials into the Security Now show. (Which itself is rather good). During these shows they read out success stories from the SpinRite software. Some of them sound amazing, but I'm sure as any other salesman would only read out amazing success stories. (Note: I am not putting down SpinRite capabilities but it is just common sales sense to read out only success stories). So listen to a few of their shows and see what you think of SpinRite then.
my experience is that of a home user. I've had the odd disk fail (I tend to buy cheap and second hand hardware for home) and in most cases spinrite has helped out getting disks mountable and usable again. Your mileage may vary but I find it a cheap way of prolonging the life of older hardware - if only to check if anything needs to be recovered from it.
I attempted to use spinrite for its maintenance benefits,  but who has time to let it work on a large disk for > 16 hours and you can't use the computer for anything else while it's running (you're booted into a DOS_only sort of mode to run it)  ?  If you have lots of disks (say a storage enclosure with 4-5 disk, plus your system and swap disks),     it's somewhat insane imagining how to keep up such a schedule.   You'd lose your computer for a week just to do routine maintenance.
One important point still missing here is that SpinRite is written by Steve Gibson - a man who has been criticized for incompetence for years and has run countless attacks on windmills during his late "career". While this does not necessarily mean that no good piece of software can come out of his "Gibson Research Corporation", it should at least make everybody check twice. As many have noted, there are plenty open-source alternatives (mostly coming as Linux Live CDs) for data recovery which would work at least as well.
I personally have been considering grabbing a license for my workplace, as (for a sys admin) it would prove to be a very valuable tool. We only get so much warning for future disk failures.
Guess I could be categorized as "one of those home users", but here is my experience: I did try it once on my mothers laptop which wouldn't boot. During the windows startup we got a BSOD claiming some system files were missing. I tried to run SpinRite, it took a while, said it found some broken sectors or something (was a while ago). When it was done, it booted without problems.
Only thing I must say that I kind of hate is that it doesn't work with usb drives (as far as I know...). And usb drives are often the ones that seem to crash for me... =/