Supposed you connect to my router. My device now has to route both my own data and your data. And if your other neighbour is connected to you can thus indirectly to me I am now routing for 3 people.  Extend for the whole street and my cheap home router might get stressed. Extend it some more and things break down. You would need much more capable devices in each home.  Technically possible, but economically not sensible,
A: This would be similar to a "Mesh" or "Token Passing" topology. Then what if a device of the neighbor connected to Internet backbone fails?
Finally, if something goes wrong, then you now no longer have one ISP which is serving many people and who can afford technically skilled people. You now want to train everybody. Once more: possible but economically senseless.
A: ISP is that "backbone which would be the gateway to the Internet outside", so why to connect to all the neighbor devices when you can reach the ISP itself?
I've heard that the Internet exchanges packets by packet switching. But why does everyone need an ISP? Can't your router just be directly connected to your neighbour's routers and their routers connected to their neighbours, all doing the packet switching? In that case, only a few would people would need to be connected to some hub or backbone which would be the gateway to the Internet outside of the neighbourhood. So why does everyone in the apartement individually connect to the ISP?
I can probably come up with a few more reasons if I think about this. But the three stated above are already enough to make this inefficient on a large scale with current technology.
A: ISP is responsible for maintaining network devices, provide fault-tolerance, and fix devices ASAP in case of failure.
Then there is an issue is stability. If I go on holliday then I turn off lights, computers and enything which I can. That includes my router. Hopefully both your neighbours do not go on vacation in the same period.
Devices with enough throughput for an area or neighborhood are expensive, so all the neighbors should buy one, which is far more than what ISP spends on devices! 
Q: In that case, only a few would people would need to be connected to some hub or backbone which would be the gateway to the Internet outside of the neighborhood.
Your connection goes to the CO, and then is sent down the line until it reaches a data center. That link may be copper or it may be fiber. Eventually it hits a datacent
Q: Can't your router just be directly connected to your neighbor's routers and their routers connected to their neighbors, all doing the packet switching?