Most of our users all use Thunderbird 2, or Thunderbird 3.  Mostly 2, because of the performance issues we have had with 3.  This user was on 3, and I downgraded him to 2.  The performance has gotten better, but according to the imapd processes on the server, his username is using the most CPU % and CPU time.
We have been experiencing a very strange anomaly, with one specific user with our UW-IMAP server.  We have about 75 users using the server, and one particular user, who is in about the middle as far as used storage keeps having issues with slow speed.  
I've already done all the usual T/S'ing:  Started profile from scratch, compacted folders, re-indexed, newer faster computer, etc..  Still, this users' imapd process is always using the most CPU on the server.  For troubleshooting, we setup another user which has more usage, folders, etc.. than he does, but we don't see the users process taking up most of the CPU with the imapd process.
I don't know much about thunderbird, but I have found that the search indexing done by outlook can be brutal on a UW-IMAP install, is there something similar in thunderbird?
This has been going on for a while, and he is a management person, so his patience is about to end.  Does anyone have any ideas?
So, it almost sounds like a particular email may be the culprit, but how can we find it, if thats the problem?
So, what we ended up doing was downgrading him to Thunderbird 2.  The performance is much, much better, and things are very snappy.  One thing that we did notice, and I'll have to research this issue now, is that sometimes Thunderbird does not download the latest messages, once it has been running for a while.  You have to shut it down, and start it back up.  This has been confirmed with several users now, so I have not narrowed it down to a server issue or a Thunderbird issue.
On another note, here is a link to a very nice article on Thunderbird 2 versus Thunderbird 3 performance.  Bottom line is that Thunderbird 3 is a pig:
In the past, I've found uw-imap can be very brutal on system performance if there is a lot of emails in individual mail folders.  What is the user's mail count like? What about mailbox sizes? Have you tried moving some of the messages around?  Have you tried another imap client to eliminate it being an issue there?  Do the users have login access to the mail server? ie, can they alter content in $hOME using ftp, or ssh? Another issue I've spotted (at least a long time ago) was that uw-imap would scan all files in $HOME looking for mail folders.
If you use a different client like "mutt" for testing, the problem may be easier to spot; at least in which phase of the protocol things get stuck (but then I'd assume the Thunderbird also has a debugging switch). I tried finding how to switch debugging output on in wu-imap, but couldn't find it in a hurry.