Just to give you an idea of my setup. I have a Ubuntu server that I have set up with different permissions depending on the user connecting to the share. On some clients, I have their Windows 7 connected via a Hub/Node Hamachi network and backing up to a share drive. Since I do their initial configurations, I will usually have their computers local on my network for the initial backup. They have access to their own shared drives, as well as a public repository on the server.
It's a simple Core i3 3GHz, 4TB (4x1TB 7200RPM SATA), 8GB DDR3 RAM server and handles everything very well.
There's an open source project called iFolder to do a "dropbox at home" kind of setup. Server is Linux only, but clients are available for Windows and Mac too. 
Try using Windows Home Server. It does everything you want, with minimal configuration, including backups, versioning and directory shares. It also has some media sharing features.
I also have some clients that require constant sync and a rolling backup of their data so I have them set up with Hamachi VPN as well as 2BrightSparks SyncBack software (Windows). This program allows multiple types of synchronization as well as their copy while files are option. So within one server, I'm providing three different solutions and it's been working fairly well for a few years now.
Owncloud also supports file versioning, so if you accidentally delete a file, it keeps a copy on the server in the Trash section. Further, if you save over a file, and it syncs the "bad" file, you can go into Owncloud web interface (oh ya, it has a very nice web frontend like OneDrive), find the file, and revert back to an older version.
Alternatively, you can convert your PC to a NAS. There are many solutions and distros that will allow you to do that.
I've been using Owncloud for the past two years to do exactly what you're asking. It supports groups and users, so depending on what you'd like to do, you can either set each computer up as a user to have separate root directories to sync to, or have one account with folders for Computer1 through Computer5.
I also have a few clients that prefer to have Windows Home Server perform their backups so on my backup server, I have a visualization of Windows Home Server running with minimal resources and a dynamically expanding drive on a SAN. This will allow their backups to grow as needed. I have them on their own Hamachi VPN network so that they can add computers as they please.