You can permanently encrypt individual files using a file encryption utility (such as axcrypt). The file will stay encrypted regardless of where it is copied or move to.
My question is: Can I encrypt a folder (and all files inside), access those files (create, edit) seamlessly while I am logged in normally to the computer ... but make the files stays encrypted when they were copied to another directory outside the encrypted folder? Regardless they were copied to the same computer or another computer or uploaded to a remote server.
If this is not a feature that Windows natively support, is there third party software that does that?
The issue you are having is with inheritance.  When you encrypted the folder, its contents - including the file - were encrypted.  However, when you move the file out of the encrypted folder, it is no longer inheriting encryption.
I just tried out Windows 7 feature to encrypt a folder. I found that when I access the encrypted folder from another computer (the parent folder of the encrypted folder is shared) I can see the files there but I could not open it (which is good). But when I copy the file to another folder outside the encrypted folder (regardless it is on the same remote computer or to the computer from where I am accessing the files) then I can open the file without any problem. This might be how it works ... but that's not what I need. 
Using Windows built-in encryption (EFS), once a file is encrypted by EFS in Windows, it should stay encrypted when copied or moved around in the same NTFS file system on the same computer. (According to this TechNet article, ):
I believe you would have to set the encryption on the file level not the folder level for this to function as you want it to. I have not tested this so I do not know for sure. Generally I do not like answering without testing first but I am answering with a suggestion. You should definitely consider Truecrypt, it's free, open source, easy to use, and has a great community. 
You could also try and secure the file by going into the properties of the file and editing who has rights to view/change it.