Over years I understand this is a very good advice and many people who follow it learn things faster.
For example, a typical Linux newbie who used Winamp for years, thinks like "in Windows, I use Winamp to listen to music, I need to find Winamp in Linux". So he goes asking people about Winamp on Linux, where is it. If he has bad luck, Linux users will just tell him there's no Winamp on Linux. This is a valid answer, but it's pretty useless and disappointing, since it doesn't meet expectations (what, people keep talking about Linux and it doesn't even have Winamp?). Another bad question is "How do I run Winamp on Linux?". A valid answer (yet mostly useless again) would be "Use Wine to run Winamp on Linux". It works this way, but it is a pain. The correct question here would be "What audio players are there to play music in Linux?". Do you see the difference? This is a higher level of abstraction. Eventually, the Linux newbie will learn about a lot of audio players, some of them being very similar to Winamp and even being able to use Winamp skins (xmms, audacious).
The best advice I ever heard for such situations was: "If you have prior Windows experience, you are doomed. You will be dominated by your Windows experience for years. If you want to learn Linux - forget what you know about Windows. Keep only the general computer knowledge."
There are a lot of firewalls in Windows. For a Windows user a firewall is generally a third-party GUI application. In Linux, there's Netfilter that belongs to the kernel and iptables - its userland companion. There are many different frontends for iptables though, even GUI ones.
I am a Windows user. I work as a web developer. I would like to start using Linux, slowly perhaps as my main OS. I would like to know more abt Linux, like what Anti-Virus/Firewalls are recommended (if needed?) abit more abt the shell commands. And in general, how do what I do in Windows map to Linux
The manual will help you become familiar with everyday tasks such as surfing the web, listening to music and scanning documents. With an emphasis on easy to follow instructions, it is suitable for all levels of experience.
For a more comprehensive guide, Getting Started with Ubuntu is one for the Ubuntu operating system. It is written under an open source license and is free for you to download, read, modify and share.
For what it is worth, I'm trying to get started with linux using it as a guest os with something like virtual box. Networking seems to be troubling me a bit on the guest but otherwise playing with shell and stuff it reduces the risk of doing something crazy that i may regret.
dedoimedo.com has tons of information, reviews and tutorials about a lot of stuff. Reading around there got me hooked and getting comfortable to install Linux (Mint Julia) and since then other distros.
If you want a quick and easy guide, click on the top left corner and then type helpEnter and click the icon.