If you just mean the average desktop PC, then that is usually based on a platform that doesn't even have ECC support.
Some workstations (particularly those with Xeon or Opteron CPUs) take registered memory, which pretty much only comes in ECC flavours anyway.  On a desktop PC you may view it as overkill.
For Desktop PCs, there's some debate whether ECC would make sense or not. It can absolutely be argued that everything ought to have ECC but, right now, it's not practical as the industry has decided to make ECC a feature to differentiate higher end hardware.
ECC RAM is designed to aid in preventing and fixing memory based errors, usually using some sort of hamming code or modular redundancy. This is very useful in servers that contained important data, or need high availability, but it comes at a cost.
Whilst its probably worth paying the extra for your important servers, do you really want to do so for your desktop machine, does it matter if there is the occasionally memory error? Sure it matters if your SQL database drops some data during a transaction, but do you care if your word document is affected by a slight memory blip?
Overall, the workstation class is typically based on essentially server hardware but with proper graphics and packaged in a different form-factor.
Is ECC RAM recommended for use in workstations, or is it something that only gets used in servers? If non-ECC RAM works in PCs, why would we need ECC RAM at all?
If you mean a workstation class computer, then it quite likely comes with ECC memory whether you care about it or not.
ECC RAM gets more interesting as memory sizes grow.  The probability of a single bit error in a machine with 8GB of RAM is quite a lot higher than it was in the days of a 640K PC/XT, simply due to the larger number of bits.  On a database server where that RAM might be in a disk buffer, a bit error can corrupt disk storage as well.  Generally you would expect to use ECC memory on a server.
If you want a reliable workstation then you want ECC RAM for it.  It will crash less often and work done on it and documents cached in RAM will not be randomly corrupted.
The expected workload is also more taxing than that of the desktop PC, so if you acknowledge that ECC makes sense for servers, then I think it's not much of a stretch that ECC also makes sense for workstations.