If you need Windows to read the drive, I suggest making any hard drives, and flash drives more than about 8-16GB NTFS anyways, and Windows and Ubuntu can read this quite easily.
It actually may not be as fast (unless GB networking) however once you have set this up, it is available to use every time and it works very well
It's a simple problem with probably an easy answer, but I was curious if anyone had any particularly elegant or insightful solutions.
Do this on both computers, then from one of the computers, go to Place > Connect to a Server, choose Windows Share, fill in the Server and (if you chose to require authentication) the User Name fields. All the other fields you can leave blank for this.
This wouldn't be as fast as the external drive, but if you don't want to reformat the drive, should be a good solution.
Alternatively if you don't want to do this or reformat / partition, as alpha1 said, split it into smaller chunks using a zip program, it should work well. However 7zip is windows only, I cannot advise one zip over another on Linux but I quickly found p7zip which looks like a *nix command line version of 7zip.
I am trying to transfer a 6 GB file from one computer to another - I tried doing just a normal copy onto my external hard drive, but apparently FAT32 doesn't support files that large. Both computers are running Ubuntu Linux, and they're on the same home network.
To do this, first copy everything off of the drive, since the reformat process is destructive. Then use gparted (if you don't already have it, it can be found in Synaptic) to reformat to ext3.
Just use SCP, which will transfer them over SSH. SSH is on by default on Ubuntu machines I believe (unless something has changed in the last few versions)
If you are only dealing with Linux machines, than reformatting the external drive could be an option, though possibly troublesome.
Split the file into various tar/rar archives that can be recombined? (this was my first attempt but totally failed with command line tar syntax since I suck at reading man pages).
Personally, I don't always have a lot of luck with anything other than standard Linux networking. When I need to transfer large files, I always end up installing a FTP server (usually there are tons to choose from within an available respository / apt-get) then just share the folder and transfer.
To do this, right click on a folder (I use a public folder in my home directory) and choose share. Configure the options to your liking, then pres OK. Most likely, this will trigger Ubuntu to ask if you want to install support for sharing. You do, and after ward will probably have to restart.