At lunch time (say, 11:30) it copies the "FB Enabled" hosts file, and then after lunch (say, 13:30) it copies the "FB Disabled" hosts file.
For the record, squillman's answer is the one I would prefer as a sysadmin, but we all know that's not the way it works in real life
If what you're doing right now is working but the issue that it's taking too much of your time, then scheduled tasks are you friend :)
I'm in general agreement with what alexm wrote but would tackle it slightly differently. Rather than build a system from scratch I suggest using one of the very easy to use firewall distros. I personally favour Smoothwall but there a number of others to choose from. In addition to allowing you much more flexibility for filtering than you currently have you will also gain the benefits of having a decent gateway firewall.
Another alternative would be to block Facebook et al from people's work machines from 9-5 but set up an "Internet Cafe" in a communal area where they can have access to the internet for personal browsing at lunchtime.
As these machines are effectively "public" people would then have to learn to log off when they've finished.
Most firewall distros have very good comunity support, so it's quite possible someone has already created an add-on to suit you. Otherwise, while the settings you are after may not be available in the normal management console they're easily implemented via squid and cron. With very little scripting you can have as much granularity and control as you desire. 
These machines could be locked for most of the day but only open from 11 am till 2 pm (for example).
There are a multitude of web filtering solutions out there that will do what you need.  Squidguard is probably the popular/simple choice, but there is no shortage of free/cheap options (as well as ridiculously expensive ones); Untangle, DansGuardian, the free versions of some of the unified threat management appliances out there like Astaro would do the trick..
Pop the two versions of the hosts file on the network somewhere (With FB enabled/disabled), and then set up a scheduled task, pushed out by GPO.