This answer is possibly as useful as a stable door, but it's for this reason that I have a rule never to set homework exercises that I haven't already solved myself.  This is not only so that I know it's solvable, but also to check that it's the right length and level - I implemented this rule after once or twice getting caught with setting questions that were too hard or required things that the students hadn't done yet.
One of my professors in graduate school assigned a problem he later realized he couldn't solve.  He emailed everyone explaining the situation and turning it into an extra credit problem.  It really motivated me to solve it (which took hours), but it was a lot of fun.
It's sometimes useful to give hints or an outline (as @james and @Martin suggest) to make the problem more approachable; otherwise, almost nobody will even try.  Obviously, this is only possible if you figure out the solution first.  On the other hand, sometimes it's appropriate for nobody to even try.  (For example, "Describe a polynomial-time algorithm for X" when X is NP-hard, or if the setting is a timed exam.)
The first point is both the hardest and the most important.  If you try to cover your ass, you will lose the respect and attention of your students (who are not stupid), which means they won't try as hard, which means they won't learn as well, which means you haven't done your job.  I don't think it's fair to let students twist in the wind with questions I honestly don't think they can answer without some advance warning.  (I regularly include open questions as homework problems in my advanced grad classes, but I warn the students at the start of the semester.)  Educational, sure, but not fair.
Yes, sadly, I've done this several times, as well as the slightly more forgivable sin of assigning a problem that I can solve, but only later realizing that the solution requires tools that the students haven't seen.  I think the following is the most professional response (at least, it's the response I've settled on after several false starts):
And if you later realize the solution is easy after all, well, I guess you screwed up twice.  Go to step 1.
We sometimes get side tracked with learning facts and getting answers that we don't talk about the process which in itself can tell you more about where your students (or even you) are.
I've been on the other side of this I'm sure.. However, sometimes it isn't really necessary for there to be an answer to have students learn. The process of trying many different approaches to solving a problem is often more important than the outcome. 
Personally, I would go to class the next day and say I don't expect that many of you got the answers but let's talk about what steps you used to try to figure it out. If that isn't a real world type of question I don't know what is(used by many job interviewers). 
If you still can't solve the problem yourself after sweating buckets over it, relax.  Probably none of the students will solve it either, but if you're lucky, you'll owe someone a LOT of extra credit and a recommendation letter.