From the budget point of view, ASA 5505 is an affordable box that covers a lot of basic networking needs. It has an integrated 8 port 10/100 switch with maximum 3 VLANs by default. 
Can someone recommend/explain me is that enough or too much, or do I need anything else with it etc.. ?
The 5510, however, comes with additional tools and scalability, like : IPS (intrusion protection), antivirus, anti-spyware, or file-content inspection features, VPN SSL ...
It should be relatively easy to upgrade ASA 5505 to more expensive models if you need the additional scalability and features. I have seen medium-size companies (500-1000 employees) use 5505 as firewall and VPN box. On the other hand, small businesses with heavy traffic, like SaaS companies, probably need at least a 5510. Personally, I think a good scaling plan is to start with a 5505 and upgrade it to 5520 (with gigabit ethernet interfaces), if ever necessary.
After evaluating many open-source firewalls (ipcop, pfsense, untangle, etc) it looks like my corporation will be using an ASA 5510 solution. The combination of having a good vpn connection client (Cisco's) along with actually supporting the features advertised has led us to this path.
I personally found that while many of those open source solutions say they will do many options, when it comes to using them in a business environment they lack some basic needed functionality. A good example was content filtering bundled with captive portal - content filtering worked fine but the captive portal would not support Active Directory integration. 
You might want to consider ipcop. It can run on very lightweight hardware and has a good reputation.
I found this Cisco solution (Cisco ASA 5505 Firewall Edition Bundle - security appliance) and I also want to know what is the diffrence between this and the one following;
If you go with ASA 5510 you'll need another managed switch to do VLANs, which about doubles the cost. Sure, you can connect an unmanaged switch to 5510 interfaces, but forget about VLANs then. 