4) There are ways of preventing some attacks, though of course it's an arms race. But just by removing the most common exploits you'll make it far less likely that you'll be the target of a random attack. You should make sure that your installation has the latest security patches for your OS, for apache and for php. You should also have a look at mod_security, which allows you to both log suspicious activity and to e.g. require that a client send headers such as User-Agent, which many crack tools don't.
2) Can you write tips of suspicious lines detection in logs? Maybe tutorials or primers of some useful regexps or techniques?
1) You can have a look at these links for some software to help you, though I've not used most of them myself. But given that you've got timestamps on the files that were altered, start by looking at the log files for those dates and time. Grep for the filename of one of the files altered; that should give you the ip address of the malefactor, and then you can start grepping for that.
One of our web-projects was hacked. Malefactor changed some template files in project and 1 core file of the web-framework (it's one of the famous php-frameworks).
Also, I'd advise you to consider sending your logs, especially error logs and any mod_security logs, to another server if possible, so that even if somebody manages to get into your server they won't be able to edit the log files to hide their tracks.
With high probability we can say, that it's not the ftp or ssh password abduction. The support specialist of hosting provider (after logs analysis) said that it was the security hole in our code.
1) What tools should I use, to review access and error logs of Apache? (Our server distro is Debian).
2 and 3) The first thing you need to do is to find out what is normal for your own site. One way to do that is to have a standard analyzing tool, such as awstat, go through your logs daily. Your main problem now appears to be that you don't know what is normal for your site, so you have no way of knowing what is abnormal. 