If you're comfortable installing an application on the servers, consider webmin as it provides a "one stop" shop for most of the logging and configuration.  Set it up to run over a high order port using SSL and it pays for itself in ease of checkup.
Anyone (or just about) can learn what this or that particular software does, and how to push this button on that tool to make x, y, or z work. That's nothing special.
A well maintained Linux server can run for years without problems.  We just shut one down that had been running for 748 days, and we only shut it down because we had migrated the application over to new hardware.  Hopefully, this will help you get your feet wet, and get you off to a good start.
Read the man page, and then run the following commands on each machine, and copy the results into your documentation:
Brush up on your vi skills.  Nano might be what all the cool kids are using these days, but experience has taught me that vi is the only text editor that is guaranteed to be on the system.  Once you get used to the keyboard shortcuts, and start creating your own triggers, vi will be like second nature to you.
The Practice of System and Network Administration, by Limoncelli, et al, is where you should start.  Technologies will come and go (and can be easily Googled as required), but the information in that book is timeless (and priceless).
One last thing, always make a copy of a config file you intend to change, and always copy the line you are changing, and comment out the original, adding your reason for changing it.  This will get you into the habit of documenting as you go, and may save your hide 9 months down the road.
If you want to be a good sys/net admin, learn the under-the-hood stuff. What's the sequence of events in a typical network connection? What's the difference between a frame and a packet? What does load average really mean on a Unix system? What's the typical boot-up process for a machine (that one alone, if you follow it from beginning to end, will provide a wealth of knowledge).
If you're just getting started, and especially since you have some Debian (Ubuntu is Debian at its core) systems, I highly recommend the Debian Reference. It's a great overview of nearly every aspect of system administration and should cover almost everything you need to know about maintaining a small set of systems like these.
I also agree with all the points pQd made, and more specifically I think it would be a good idea for you to set up a wiki to document all your processes and configurations. At my organization we use Trac, but any wiki engine should do, just make sure it has a nice way to display source code since that's useful for tiny scripts and command listings.
First off, find your logs.  Most Linux distros log to /var/log/messages, although I've seen a couple log to /var/log/syslog.  If something is wrong, most likely there will be some relevant information in the logs.  Also, if you are dealing with email at all, don't forget /var/log/mail.  Double-check your applications, find out if any of them log somewhere ridiculous, outside of syslog.
I'll tell you the greatest non-secret of system and network administration. You ready? Ok, here it is:
That will serve as the beginnings of your documentation.  Those commands let you know your environment, and can help narrow down problems later on.
Once you understand the fundamentals, and understand them really well, laying knowledge on top of a good foundation is much easier. But if you start at the top, and try to learn specific bits of software without knowing what goes on underneath, that will make you... just another high-tech janitor, basically.
Grep through your logs and search for "error" or "failed".  That will give you an idea of what's not working as it should.  Your users will give you their opinion on whats wrong, listen closely to what they have to say.  They don't understand the system, but they see it in a different way than you do.