Everything works great with a laptop connected to eth0.  I'm able to get out through and back with the Pi.  The issue I'm having... and I'm certain it's a simple one, is when I plug the Integ Jnior into eth0, it pulls an address correctly and I can interface through the Pi on (current lease 10.1.1.119). When I try to connect to 10.1.1.119 from our primary network (192.168.1.1)... bupkis. 
You can also download the Support Tool from the INTEG site (integpg.com). It is freely available. Run this on a Windows machine on the same subnet as the JNIOR. The JNIOR when connected to that subnet should show up under the Beacon tab. Right-click and you can setup the IP configuration for the JNIOR.
As for using iptables: this is a firewall and it is used to restrict connections. If you have problems with connections I would first avoid using it in addition and would make it completely transparent. When your connections are working then you can define your firewall rules step by step.
Can I ask why you need a bridge in order to put your JNIOR on the network? You can disable DHCP on the JNIOR and assign whatever addressing that you need. You can reach the command line console through the lower RS-232 port (115.2 KBaud, 8 data, 1 stop, no parity). Use HELP to view the options for the IPCONFIG command. There are slight differences between the Series 3 (310, 312, or 314) and the Series 4 (410, 412, or 414). A USB-to-Serial adapter works great for that.
You are also talking about a bridge. You cannot bridge wlan0 as client connection with eth0. This is not supported by the on-board wifi device of the RasPi. For further information about this issue look at Raspberry Pi WiFi to Ethernet Bridge for a server?.
This is out of specification and violates your primary internal network. If a device requests an ip address then both DHCP server will respond and each will offer an ip address without knowing what the other DHCP server has done so far. Is it possible that devices get the same ip address from different DHCP server and this will break their communication. You should shut down the DHCP server on the RasPi as soon as possible.
On the Integ Jnior it's set to DHCP and pulls an address from the RPi.  The Gateway is set to 10.1.1.1, the primary dns is set to 10.1.1.1 and 2nd is 0.0.0.0 .  I have the local domain set to mycompany.com 
Need help setting up comm between an Integ Jnior and our primary domain. Here's what I've done so far.  I've taken RPi 3 B+ and set it up as a DHCP server broadcasting 10.1.1.1.  Wlan0 on the Pi has pulled a lease of 192.168.1.216 from our primary internal network.  
What you are trying to do cannot work. There is a big issue you should fix immediately. You have a DHCP server running on your primary internal network. In addition to this DHCP server you setup another one on the RasPi. Now you have two DHCP server running on the same subnet.
What I need to accomplish now is accessing the Jnior device through our primary network.  My gut is telling me it's in the iptable or a dns issue.  Thoughts or solutions are greatly appreciated.