If upon reviewing your TOC, you see that in addition to the heading, the actual text is also appearing in the TOC, then you need go to the View tab, and click on the button that says outline and then in the upper left click “outline.” You are now viewing the document with little bullets that show plus signs or other indicators. To see all levels, at the top left click all levels in the drop down box after “show levels”. (You can scroll through your document and when you click on a heading or line from the body of the text, you will see what level of text that is.) So now go to your problem area in the text of the document that keeps appearing in the TOC. You will see that it is ascribed the wrong level. You can fix that by highlighting it and then at the upper left click on the correct level from the drop down box (which may in your case be body text.) You can then X out of outlining view. Check your text. You may have to fix the formatting a little but the text will be at the correct level. Now update your TOC and the heading but not the text should appear in the TOC.
In my case I had diagrams that were in a "Heading 3" style based on how I had added space around them prior to inserting each one, and therefore showed up in the TOC - selecting each diagram and setting it to "Normal" style fixed the problem.
If the headings are indeed "Heading X" and the body text is indeed "Body Text", you still need to make sure there's an extra line between the heading and the body ('Enter' as opposed to 'Shift-Enter'), or the table of contents believes the body is part of the heading.
Possibly, when drafting the document, you selected some text as part of heading and then "corrected" this selection by changing the font of the text. You can correct this error as follows.
Make sure that the paragraphs of the diagrams, illustrations and other text have their outline level correctly set under Paragraph properties. They should be "Body Text" and not "Level X".
Select the Home tab. Selecting the text appearing erroneously in your table of contents then selects a heading style over Styles. Change the style by clicking the Normal style. Rebuild your table of contents.