(Did you ever wonder why big blogs often talk about saving bandwidth? Why would they do that if it were unlimited? Because it's not - the better packages have a bandwidth limit, just a very high one)
Don't rely on the kindness of these companies; they have hundreds (if not thousands) of other users, and have no problem shutting you down if you're a drain on their resources. They will let go of your $5/month if you're costing them $5.50.
I have a blog at LunarPages. They say that everything is unlimited but I got some warning for high CPU usage and they requested me to install a cache plugin.
There's also dreamhost they allow me to make multiple user accounts and put different domains or subdomains onto different users' accounts, and so they basically support what you're supposing you might do. Not sure how much longer they'll be offering unlimited accounts, but it's been about a year now that I've seen.
Once you get past a certain point, most hosts will simply start throttling your traffic, and in some cases charge you for overuse(!).
Occasionally these hosts will shut you down without warning, too, if you exceed some invisible threshold. There was a high-profile case of this with the Maccast website and Godaddy a few years ago. Shared hosting was exceeded, and Godaddy just killed the site without even warning the owner.
If all of your friends are using it for, say, low profile development sites, then sharing should be fine, but keep in mind unlimited is anything but.
The catches are limited CPU or compute time, and an actual limit to the actual bandwidth allocation and space allocation. Once you're using N% of the shared hosting on a machine of theirs they're going to explain that while unlimited you've run out of space or bandwidth on a shared server, and need to upgrade to a private, or virtual private server. Also you'll often find that the database load and or count is limited. And personally, I find that's all fine for an individual, and less so for a company or group of people.