But like others have said, there are so many factors at play, it could mean something but also it may not mean anything.
Are you seeing any packet loss when you perform extended pings? If so, this may be indicative of a congested link.
ping time can vary so much according to factors outside your control that it's worth aggregating results to eliminate inconsistencies - there is a useful linux tool called mtr which is included in many distributions and aggregates traceroute and ping into a single utility. It will give you the best and worst ping times, as well as average and standard deviation. While not conclusive, it will offer a more balanced view.
I think, this potentional issue is called load-balancing router. It routes your request sometimes to the 1st interface and sometimes to the 2nd. They have different latency.
Just another thought, if one of the links you are going through is near full capacity, pings are usually given a lower priority, which could explain the variation. 
Could you provide a bit more detail about the connectivity between your office and your data centres? Are you using leased lines? Internet VPN? Have you spoken to your company's NOC/network administrators? They may be aware of this issue already.
It's worth doing repeated traceroutes to the sever(s) in question, to see if you can identify a particular network device where latency is varying; or alternatively, it could be that there are multiple paths to this location, one of which experiences generally higher latency.
Do you have some sort of firewall between the data centers doing any sort of filtering? Have you done a tracert between the offices and seen where in the transaction the "hold ups" are happening? This might help you better figure out where your problem lies.
For example, we have optics on wan1 and ADSL on wan2. For one particular server ping through wan1 was 17 ms and through ADSL - 112 ms.
Variance in ping times can be indicative of several things, but the fact that you get the same behaviour regardless of which server in that data centre you ping seems to indicate that there may be an issue with a link or device along the path.