Problem: Not everybody will attend every session, nor will everybody be staying at the hotel to/in which the conference is nearest/held.
If you don't want to pre-fill each USB stick with the electronic proceedings, let people fill their own sticks with the electronic proceedings, either from a PC (or three) at the registration desk, or from a colleague who already dumped their stick onto some other device.
Enlist two (or more) people -- one an energetic young researcher (student or post-doc) and one an engaging and extremely experienced academic (professor) -- to co-ordinate activities for early-stage researchers.  The former would be responsible for planning drinks and other social events, while the latter can provide careers and research advice, perhaps in a special-purpose session of the conference or possibly at said drinks.  (An optional third person could be an industrial contact.)
Solution: A few tables, desks, chairs in a quiet room for undisturbed reading, writing, typing, browsing, possibly with power outlets.
I imagine that this can be a lot of work to do from scratch, however it may be possible to have an organization specialized in CS to do this for the conference organizer since it does some advertising for them with not a lot of work. Win-win. 
Only people ready to do it would use it. For example, for students going to the conference it may be a good way to:
I know that this will not be used by every one, but I believe that those using it will really benefit from it (personnal experience, I always had a great time CS).
I am not saying to bind people to CouchSurf, however imagine that with the hotel recommendation you add a page where local researchers (or student as I imagine this would be mainly used by students) could post a message saying "I can host so many people, mail me".
If you need a bag to give registrants, then you are giving out too much stuff---everyone just throws it away and often hotels do not even have paper recycling!  Still, if you do use a cloth bag then choose a useful design, for example a grocery shopping bag.  If you use a plastic bag, then ask the hotel for plastic recycling bins.  
Yes, the papers are online, but conferences rarely have working wireless in the conference rooms or nearby public areas.  CD-ROMs are the current electronic medium of hoice, but a large fraction of people have tablets and netbooks without CD drives.  USB drives cost less than dirt, and they work with almost any computer whose name doesn't match the regexp "iP*". 