It seems from your question that the VMs are not always running (ie you manually start them).  Is that so? 
If you're any good at vbscripting or powershell, I'd consider crafting something with them and automating as much of the process as you can.  
I have a similar problem as I have multiple XP VMs on my laptop for testing software with different customers.  Whenever I start a new project I manually start my base VM, update it and then clone it for the latest customer test.  Its a pain to do, but I can't see any other way around it.
If they are not always running then I don't know how you can get around updating them without starting them. But still having a WSUS server would make downloading all the patches easier overall. 
As for what to run in those scripts, well it might be as simple as copying files or you could put the files you want synchronised in a Git or SVN repository.  As for updates, provided you are being sensible and have the machines NATed then there's no reason to update them as soon as a patch comes out.  You can simply allow Microsoft Update to do it's thing, likewise with Adobe Update and Java Update (though maybe you should be more proactive in keeping Adobe products up to date).
Also as the VMs are not always On, You may want to configure a simple startup script to run the WSUS Update command. 
If they are always running, then then the functionality you want (auto updates, being able to review updates etc) would mean stepping into the big leagues (WSUS server etc) [note that I don've have any experience with this :-) ]
You could run them on VMWare ESX/ESXi with vCenter and use vCenter Update Manager to get the updates and apply them to all your guest with a few clicks.
It sounds as though you want to be able to make lots of different changes to your virtual guests - whilst Update Manager will handle the patching/hotfix/update side of things, I don't think it will answer your queries around changing other system files/updating Java. 
I think WSUS would be a good solution for you. You can review the updates and approve the ones you need. 
Not forgetting, whilst ESXi may be free, VCenter isn't and that definitely seems like overkill for your requirements.
If your host OS is capable of hosting active directory or a Samba domain then you'll get a netlogon directory which you can use to script things to happen on login to your XP machines.  You can use batch scripts, powershell or anything else you can make Windows support.  It's maybe not the best way of doing things on a large scale, but on a pretty small scale like this you could get away with it quite nicely.