Türkiye’s lucky they weren’t invaded by Russia, or else China would have only given them $1 million (and in case you don’t understand, Ukraine only got $1 million in aid from China, and their losses are far, far greater).
What?
Because how expensive something is is not the same as its price.
The actual expense of an item is how much is on the price tag relative to the amount of money you have/how much you can reasonably predict to be earning.
Hypothetically, let's say, in country A, Bob earns 20 shillings a day.
In country B, Tim earns 10 shillings a day.
They both want a nice cold beer.
The price of a pint is 1 shilling in both country A and country B, but yet Tim's beer is actually gonna be 2X as expensive because he earns half what Bob earns.
In country A, a beer costs 5% of your income, but in country B, a beer costs 10% of your income, even if beer is the same price in both.
The beer would only be equally expensive in both countries if either the daily incomes were the same or, alternatively, if a pint cost 2 shillings in country A, but still just 1 in country B.
This way, Bob and Tim would both be paying 10% of their income (it is very good beer).
That's why anti Americanism exists comfortably everywhere, even amongst Americans, because there isn't this monolithic fight response from this single entity.
You don't even notice it.
But it's there.
If anything, assuming the statistic is even true, it is an indictment of market-based economics because China operates largely on a market-based socialist system, i.e., not the type of Soviet-style, wholly state-directed command economy you are imagining.
This.
My first thought was Sweden should show Turkiye up and send lots of aid.
THEN see if Turkiye keeps opposing Sweden entering NATO.
It'd be a helluva thing.
This is very introductory and, when you start factoring in taxes, currency exchange rates, and the many many other things at play, comparative cost of living estimates between nations quickly becomes a very complicated, very fascinating area of economics.
The little thought experiment with Bob and Tim in no way solves the debate here in this thread about CoL in China, but it does illustrate how complicated even buying a beer in different places rapidly becomes.
It helps to at least be confused on a higher level and to understand why this shit is so complex.