Giving Canada credit, this is not an insignificant action.
The gangs are able to hide from normal western signals/intelligence because they are so poor they cannot afford cellphones and have no physical money.
The planes are actually needed to figure out their operation.
It's not like the gangs mind, they're not stupid enough to attack aircraft.
Right now they have the oil terminal/port blockaded and are demanding recognition from the government or from the UN.
Canada's mission is (likely) in regards to figuring out what is happening within/around the oil terminal so ships can continue docking safely.
On paper it would be logical for a small Canadian/US paramilitary operation inside the oil terminal, enough to allow safe passage by approved trucks into it to load fuel and aid from western ships.
The commandos would also effectively become the government - a government enforced exclusively through fuel trucks and mercenaries.
However, the gangs have an alternative food/ammo supply from Mexico's cartels in exchange for slaves.
Canada won't invade Mexico while a western-supported Mexican military operation would create an occupation worse than the colonial French government.
Lmao, what a fucking joke.
America and France have consistently fucked over Haiti for the last 200 years.
Forcing them to pay crushing indemnities for having the gall to free themselves from their slavery.
Using the indemnity debt as leverage to allow corporations to exploit the island.
Invading when they overthrow their murderous, authoritarian leader in favour of someone who wanted to curtail American influence, then occupying the country for 20 years.
During the occupation extracting up to 40% of Haiti's GNI, reinstituting slavery, then slaughtering anyone who opposed this policy.
Sort of.
All of their elected officials have fled the country but some unelected officials (including Ariel Henry, the president who was appointed after Moise was assassinated) are still in the country and still representing themselves as the government.
And that government is being treated as "legitimate" by the intentional community for purposes of diplomatic relations.