In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I don't know.
Probably not in our lifetime.
Neither full auto weapons nor military style semi-automatic rifles have ever been used much in violent crime because they are not very portable and they are difficult to conceal.
If you wanted to reduce violent crime through gun control, rather than wave your pitchfork and yell at an effigy, you would go after handguns, not long guns.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
>No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service in time of war or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.
Of course there is.
How many of those deaths will not occur since [X] gun control measure.
More than half those are suicides.
Taking account of the fact that the US has no functioning public mental health services, and in fact is the only rich country which makes no effort to take care of its people at all, and that any significant gun control measure is impossible, can you think of an alternative proposal that could probably be far more effective?
They all are.
The right to bear arms was a state level protection not a personal one.
It also was never meant to be without limit as even the founders who wrote the amendment took part in gun control restrictions after writing it.
The current interpretation of it is absurd.