Guys as an indian let me tell you that we view usa very positively and India usa relations are going to get stronger in the future no matter what judgement we pass here on reddit because we both have a common adversary that is china.
But it is not going to be a smooth sail because of the history between the two.
Usa sided with Pakistan during 1965 war and stopped wheat shipments to India almost creating a famine, then again sided with Pakistan and decided to attack us in 1971 war of Bangladesh liberation (we were saved by ussr) then again 1999 kargil war usa didn't give us gps coordinates of Pakistan army infiltrators despite pakistan being the aggressor in all three wars.
Also cia was hellbent in stopping India from carrying out nuclear test despite knowing full well that pakistan was working on their nuclear program.
Then there is issue of defence exports , usa doesn't transfer technology to India and i mean why would they, they spent money in r&d to develop these weapons but we cannot keep on spending billions of dollars every year on imports that is where Russia comes in, they transfer tech which by our standards is still a jackpot deal.
Also the abrupt abandonment of Kurds and Afghanistan doesn't instill a lot of confidence in the minds of policy makers.
Then there's the weaponisation of human rights issue, whenever we take a stance against usa out comes a statement the next day that "we are concerned about the human rights issues in india" which can hamper our tourism industry.
Really?
You're going there?
We're on the verge of nuclear apocalypse and you're calling me racist because I like chicken tikka masala?
You might be a little too sensitive, just thinking aloud bud.
The Indian government repeatedly appealed to the international community for assistance, but failed to elicit any response.
That is far from true.
Many retired military and intelligence officers go on to serve as security advisors or other senior positions in the government after their retirement.
There are a few regions in the world but might disagree.
Nonetheless, ironic that India objects to American outsourcing, particularly when it comes to your own defense from China and Pakistan.
You have warriors, just like you have programmers, but you need advanced weapons.
You are partially tied to Russian military hardware, some of which is not proving effective in Ukraine.
Still, you are completely free to choose your own alliances.
Ps, thank you for extra hot chicken tikka masala and saag paneer.
During the war, the Pakistani Army and its local collaborators carried out a systematic execution of the leading Bengali intellectuals.
A number of professors from Dhaka University were killed during the first few days of the war.
Professors, journalists, doctors, artists, engineers and writers were rounded up by the Pakistani Army blindfolded, taken to torture cells to be executed en masse, most.
Allegedly, the Pakistani Army created a list of doctors, teachers, poets, and scholars.