For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
No.
Don’t tax anything, at all.
You fix this issue regionally municipality by municipality.
Zoning laws.
For example-Like they just announced adding a new irs tax that anyone who uses Venmo or Apple Pay or any other type of credit card processing app for their small business or to send money to people has to report any profits over $600 and fill out a form - and they said if you don’t do the form you are automatically audited… so funny cuz they promised to audit the wealthy and corporations with the new irs hires… but instead they are going after gig economy, small businesses, and anyone who for example buys a couch for $600 then sells it on eBay for $1200 they must report it & pay tax on it… I picture a lot of landscaper type jobs and stay at home moms selling products will now have another big tax —-.
Yep.
I was trying to buy a house while the interest rates were at rock bottom during covid and almost every single house that went on the market in my area was gone in less than 3 days and was bought with cash by people out of state for insane amounts over asking.
Now a lot of them are rentals that are sitting empty because they want way too much for rent.
The last house I looked at before I gave up went up for rent a few weeks later for about 3/4 over what my mortgage would have been.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
This is why a bunch of real estate apps got into buying houses and reselling them for 40% more artificially inflating the market- they were making way more than investing in stocks— so people were paying hundreds of thousands over asking with no inspections and the apps profited and low interest rates motivated people to buy—- then, the houses got so over inflated and too expensive to afford and there would be lots of competing offers driving it up further—- then no one can afford to buy, and the interest rates went up along with every other commodity … so people stopped buying… within a matter of weeks the market tanked and the real estate apps sold off their inventory and decided it wasn’t worth the risk… a bunch are now declaring bankruptcy -.
Which is why I said you were both right and both wrong.
The problem isn't JUST foreign nationals or JUST a supply of homes or JUST zoning laws.
It's all of that and a whole lot more.
If zoning laws, around WWII, limited the accessibility of brand new wartime housing and neighborhoods exclusively to whites, and essentially establishing ghettos, offering shitty run down old properties to Blacks, Asians, Hispanics, and other minorities whom also served…you can get zoning laws to limit the corporate entities that can own the property, to begin with.
Thus, the general public can allot more control in a local level on how much volume of land can be used for rentals.
If in a situation exists where the local economy needs to increase or decrease rental property eligibility then the community has a say.
You don’t hurt developers much by slapping a tax, they increase the rents.
What you want is to minimize the opportunity for companies like BlackRock to buy the properties to begin with…or at least make it a vehement pain in the ass to do so.
Taxes don’t balance oligarchs for fuck, they can always make a quick buck while you struggle to pay rent.