In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
thats nice.
prove spirits exist if you want that taken seriously and not laughed at.
after all, youre DEMANDING that MY RIGHTS be dictated by her desire to suck the toes of her magic sky daddy.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
>(2) (a) It is a discriminatory practice and unlawful for a person, directly or indirectly, to refuse, withhold from, or deny to an individual or a group, because of disability, race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, or ancestry, the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of a place of public accommodation or, directly or indirectly, to publish, circulate, issue, display, post, or mail any written, electronic, or printed communication, notice, or advertisement that indicates that the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of a place of public accommodation will be refused, withheld from, or denied an individual or that an individual's patronage or presence at a place of public accommodation is unwelcome, objectionable, unacceptable, or undesirable because of disability, race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, or ancestry.
Sure.
You don’t have to service customers based on your beliefs.
But then I would also expect that you don’t take advantage of any tax benefits or advantages available to your business that are funded by the tax dollars of the folks that you intend to discriminate against.
So, get your own police force and your own fire company to protect your property, pave your own roads, get your own clean water and your own utilities, and we’re good.
You go right ahead and turn away whoever you want.
Until then, while we all throw into the communal pot, leave your beliefs at home.