In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I can.
Because this isn't a good faith exercise.
Yes, both cases should be investigated to see where the system failed.
But barring anything else, Biden's case appears to be a case of the documents being taken mistakenly.
Meanwhile, Trump literally had to have a search warrant levied against him to get documents back, that he claimed he had already returned or didn't have.
One is worse than the other, but of course, Republicans only care about the one that can be weaponized against their enemies.
Philosophic understandings include criticism.
The Stanford page (despite taking pains to justify generalized/small c/populist conservatism) includes criticisms.
Involving those, we can conclude generalized conservatism (small c) is a myth at best and a Trojan Horse at worst.
Not even voluntarily, but rather proactively.
"Voluntarily" suggests a reaction to something.
Biden wasn't being compelled to return documents.
His team noticed the mistake and then did the right thing.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
And the single thing that most accurately predicts elite self-confidence, as Ziblatt marshals powerful statistical and electoral evidence to argue, is the ability to build an effective, competitive conservative political party before the transition to democracy occurs.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
More familiar definitions of general/populist/small-c conservatism are a weird mash-up including personal responsibility and incremental change.
Neither of those makes sense applied to policy issues.
The only opposed change that really matters is the destruction of the aristocracy in favor of democracy.
For some reason the arguments were white washed into a general “opposition to change.”.