In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
How?
Abortion pills aren’t over the counter.
My insurance probably wouldn’t pay for more than one, if any.
In that case, as a woman in a conservative state who’s still at the peak of fertility and sexually active, I’m gonna take the moral L and keep that pill for myself.
I hope I don’t have to use it, but I don’t wanna be FUCKED like so many others either.
As selfless as I’d like to be, I’m kind of in a pickle too and I cannot/will not be forced to have a baby when I don’t want it.
My case aside, if it’s not OTC and it’s expensive, how can other women in blue states even obtain all of these to send out to help others?
I don’t see how the average American woman could send out several of these pills at hundreds of dollars a pop.
I’m genuinely asking, because I don’t see how it’s possible, although I could very well be missing something.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Unfortunately, proving beyond all reasonable doubt he is a traitor is a long, complicated process, not least because he can afford some of the best lawyers in the business, so the government's case has to be watertight - they have to prove he intended his supporters to overturn the election rather than merely peacefully protest; that his call to action was more than mere hyperbole - hence why Prosecutors are also investigating his business dealings, his tax affairs, and his unauthorised removal and storage of government documents (IIRC, the Presidential Records Act covers all government documents, regardless of classification status, including unclassified documents - but in the light of documents turning up at the homes of Biden and Pence, they need to prove intent - although the obstruction by his lawyers and repeated denials of documents being classified will probably aid their case).