In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Seriously.
All I ever hear from progressives is how much they hate moderates.
Party unity is supposed to be a two way street, but progressives seem to think that it's merely that they can unilaterally impose while consistently showing hostility to the people they want to "unify" with.
Did we learn nothing from RBG?
Democrats bring disappointing nominees and then act surprised when they lose.
I have nothing against Biden.
I think he’s doing a great job… but I also think we are a country full of many smart people and I can’t believe we as a party believe he is the best we have for the next election… really??
There’s not one other democrat who is even slightly younger and could do a better job?
?
"The leaks resulted in allegations of bias against Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign, in apparent contradiction with the DNC leadership's publicly stated neutrality,[8] as several DNC operatives openly derided Sanders' campaign and discussed ways to advance Hillary Clinton's nomination.
Later reveals included controversial DNC–Clinton agreements dated before the primary, regarding financial arrangements and control over policy and hiring decisions.
[9] The revelations prompted the resignation of DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz before the 2016 Democratic National Convention.
[10] The DNC issued a formal apology to Bernie Sanders and his supporters "for the inexcusable remarks made over email" that did not reflect the DNC's "steadfast commitment to neutrality during the nominating process.
"[11] After the convention, DNC CEO Amy Dacey, CFO Brad Marshall, and Communications Director Luis Miranda also resigned in the wake of the controversy.
[12]".
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !