r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
chronic illnesses such as HIV/AIDs-related illnesses, diabetes, epilepsy, hypertension (high blood pressure) and related illnesses.
This is so true.
I have a high deductible plan.
It is expertly designed to fuck us over as much as possible.
Mexico is also universal.
But they do something Canada doesn’t do.
They classify dental care items as medical devices.
And the Mexican government can therefore negotiate their cost.
As a result Americans and Canadians fly/drive to Mexico for dental work.
The dental implant for a single tooth can run over 1k in the US and Canada (assuming no crazy stuff) and the same, exact little titanium screw that is the implant…costs 100 dollars in Mexico.
(What the actual fuck!
).
The misinformation is you are insinuating that these systems require the small completely unnecessary private option that is available as an argument against single payer, and you are just absolutely wrong.
-What will you do for a job/school?
Do you realize we have virtually no safety net?
And non citizens can’t really access it.
If you don’t have an income you’re on the street pal.
I explain US rents.
In places like the UK and Australia the vast majority of people don't have private insurance because it is absolutely not necessary to spend extra money to operate inefficiently outside of the single payer system that is available to everyone.
There is literally no necessity to get private insurance in these countries, those companies could disappear tomorrow and everyone will still get the care they need.
The fact that an expensive private option allows you to get services faster than people on the public system is irrelevant to the system being single payer and in no way is an argument against a single payer system.
Your entire argument is flawed and the misinformation is the insinuation that the private options that make up an extremely small part of the system are needed in any way.
I don't see how you seem to think "people with more money shouldn't have to wait in line the poors" is a reasonable argument against a single payer system, especially when these private options for rich people are still possible in a single payer system.
-do you drive?
How do you get around?
And than proceed to explain that out of a handful of metros we have no walkable cities.