> When the film was released an FBI spokesperson acknowledged that Abagnale had given lectures at the Academy "from time to time," but denied that Abagnale had been given commendations by the agency as claimed in the film's marketing.
[100] At no point has the FBI made an official statement corroborating Abagnale's biographical claims, nor has the agency confirmed his extraordinary claims that he was sent into a military base as an expert on missiles, and into a secret lab in New Mexico.
[46][101] Abagnale has claimed in public lectures that he was discussed in detail in a coffee table book celebrating 100 years of the FBI.
[46] However, Abagnale's name does not appear anywhere in the official book celebrating 100 years of the FBI.
[102] In his public lectures Abagnale has taken on a pseudo-spokesperson role for the FBI.
In discussing recruitments he states, "we take 1 in 10,000 applications.
"[46] However, there are 11,500 applications per year for 900 positions at the FBI (2018) - which is 1 in 13 applicants, not 1 in 10,000.
[103].
The traditional education system of school, colleges and university is slowly being rendered obsolete by the internet, which is why internet has granted SO many careers, that doesn't require even the tiniest bit of institutional tutelage.
What are you smoking?
This is a highly regulated profession for a reason.
Peoples lives are at stake.
"Ahh yes, Google will totally teach you how to research, scrutinize and interpret medicine in a way that develops your skillset to analytically assess patients' conditions and investigate pathophysiologies in order to provide the best patient-centered care possible.
Noone died yet.
Because just like doctors or any other 'gig', you don't get assigned to supervise life and death of everyone on day 1.
Regardless of what you learned at Uni, which 99% of it is useless in Engineering UNLESS you're working in the field that applies that knowledge, you're going to be treated like you know nothing and taught the ropes by a veteran employee.