In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Outsourcing completely obliterated the heartland.
It's true that a lot of that happened decades ago, but it's not like anyone ever solved the problem.
People still need good-paying jobs.
However, we need education and industrial policy in this country that provides opportunity for non-intellectuals.
We need more apprenticeship opportunities and publicity for options already available.
We need more community college programs and companies that train workers rather than poach them from less successful economies where government invests in training.
I have read that there are serious shortages in skilled blue collar opportunities in all fields as boomers retire.
We need to build better pipelines to work.
“It’s a stereotype of other people’s stereotypes,” lexicographer Ben Zimmer says.
But it’s not as if the stereotypes are entirely imagined.
Zimmer says the concept behind flyover country is present in older phrases, like middle America, “which has been used to talk about, geographically, the middle part of the U.S. since 1924, but then also has this idea of not only the geographic middle but the economic and social middle of the country as well, that kind of middle-ness that’s associated with the Midwest.” Another term for the same place, Zimmer notes, is heartland, which is “for people who want to valorize a particular social or political value.”.
What?
Fetterman literally made a name for himself as a mayor who worked to revitalize a former steel mill town, and then made restoring American manufacturing jobs a central plank of his Senate campaign.
You mentioned Bethlehem specifically, so is a video of Fetterman holding a rally there, where his campaign spoke specifically about plant closures and job loss.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !