“The year 1915 was fated to be disastrous to the cause of the Allies and to the whole world.
By the mistakes of this year the opportunity was lost of confining the conflagration within limits which though enormous were not uncontrolled.
Thereafter the fire roared on till it burnt itself out.
Thereafter events passed very largely outside the scope of conscious choice.
Governments and individuals conformed to the rhythm of the tragedy, and swayed and staggered forward in helpless violence, slaughtering and squandering on ever-increasing scales, till injuries were wrought to the structure of human society which a century will not efface, and which may conceivably prove fatal to the present civilization.
But in January, 1915, the terrific affair was still not unmanageable.
It could have been grasped in human hands and brought to rest in righteous and fruitful victory before the world was exhausted, before the nations were broken, before the empires were shattered to pieces, before Europe was ruined.
It was not to be.
Mankind was not to escape so easily from the catastrophe in which it had involved itself.
Pride was everywhere to be humbled, and nowhere to receive its satisfaction.
No splendid harmony was to crown the wonderful achievements.
No prize was to reward the sacrifices of the combatants.
Victory was to be bought so dear as to be almost indistinguishable from defeat.
It was not to give even security to the victors.
There never was to be ‘The silence following great words of”.
Complete withdrawal from all Ukrainian regions including Crimea, financial restitution for all damage to Ukraine and immediate political exile to the Korean DMZ.
Welcome to getting your commie arse kicked, Comrade!
"In return for meeting the surrender conditions, Russian officials would allegedly avoid facing any criminal charges over their involvement in the Ukrainian invasion and subsequent conflict.
Solovey claimed that the proposal had been met with a positive reaction by the Russians, as reported by dailymail.co.uk.
".