For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It negates the rape/accident/whatever argument.
You know you’re pregnant by that time.
It won’t make either side happy.
But at some point, that baby has rights and I’d wager it’s around 12 weeks.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Then how about a gender neutral law that protects a person's right to abortion, a person's say over the care/treatment of their reproductive system (like sterilization), hormone medicine (like hormonal birth control), non hormonal medicine in regards to a person's reproductive system, the right to life saving medicine regardlesss of one's ability to procreate, the right to medicine that helps/mitigates life debilitating conditions regardless of one's ability to procreate, and finally the right to life saving measures regardless of the impact on a viable fetus in a timely fashion.
Not true in general.
In fact the currently nationwide legality of same sex marriage comes about because the supreme court overruled the previous federal law substantially banning/disrecognzing it (a law both Chuck Shumer and Joe Biden voted for in its day, which shows how far we've come).
The strenh of the new law protecting same sex marriage comes from now making it a federal law very, very, very clearly and very carefully written to be within the authority granted to congress by the constitution.
Requiring recognition of marriages entered into in another state is under the "full faith and credit" constitutional language; it's requiring offering them that's less certainly within congress's authority (congress ordering the states to do things triggering a lot more skepticism); and not something that would have passed this congress anyway.
I could go on but what's the point?
Kids are suffering and forcing more births makes more kids suffer, if that doesn't break your heart then nothing will.
Stop protecting fetuses when you should be protecting the already alive children in desperate need of society giving just a single flying fuck about their well-being.
In conclusion: fuck every pro-birth moron who only cares about their own agenda and not the innocents who suffer because of anti-abortion laws.