And what exactly do you think will happen?
Ukraine invading Russia and everything is turning out great?
Russia is then being invaded/attacked an will probably start nukes.
All these people here saying Ukraine should attack more of Russia are not using their brains correctly.
Contemporary orbital ballistic targeting systems are very, very accurate.
Like within a handful of meters if not closer.
Russia's infrastructure (electricity, railways, defense manufacturing, etc.)
is critical to Russia's ongoing military campaign and, therefore, those are valid targets.
The fact that the destruction of those targets will hurt Russia's civilians is unfortunate, but that is Russia's fault, not Ukraine's.
Demanding Ukraine spare those targets out of some sense of moral high ground is childish, and in all probability it could lead to far more death and destruction by allowing the war to continue on longer than it otherwise would.
Cool story.
Jus in bello is a real thing, so uh, “never not a war crime” is very, very arguable.
And you’re right - Russia does commit war crimes - but targeting a mall or apartment buildings and targeting a power plant are completely different objectives with completely different definable goals and secondary/tertiary impacts.
The world is not a Disney melodrama where “stooping to the lows of your enemy” is some dramatic pantomime.
The real and actual longevity and sovereignty of Ukraine depends on the strategic and operational advances they can make in their own defense against a nakedly savage enemy.
It would be sad.
Many things in war are sad.
Russian civilians freezing to death because their government keeps pursuing its unjust war against Ukraine would not come close to being the saddest thing to happen in this war.
If Russia wanted to avoid that outcome it should not have invaded Ukraine and should not have deliberately targeted Ukrainian civilians and infrastructure countless times.
I agree on your latter points.
This war has negatively effected Russia in a way that will last lifetimes.