To give you an idea of what kind of people created the "new Japan," the Liberal Democratic Party erected a statute of Justice , the one Justice in the Tokyo Trials who dissented and argued that Japanese generals shouldn't have been convicted or even tried for war crimes.
Sort of, not really.
The band of Novorossiya fascists (of which Girkin is the most prominent) has never been aligned with Putin - it's a marriage of convenience.
They view his government as ineffectual and corrupt and much of the wider Putin coalition as soft useless fools (Girkin has repeatedly described Putin's government/allies as parasites whose only interest in Russia is keeping their host alive - it's been one of his favorite analogies).
Yup, I called it from day one.
It seemed like all the world wrote off Ukraine but I thought they had a fighting chance (pun fully intended) based on Russian overconfidence, under-mobilization, disdain for logistics, and Putin's own Stalinesque purges.
Meanwhile Ukraine had been preparing for a massive showdown for several years, the populace was willing to fight and die, and all the Russian tanks and planes would be of little use in urban combat.
Tangentially-related thought.
I wonder how much Ukrainian culture is going to start cropping up in the West as a result of this mass transplantation.
It ought to be interesting.
The FSB is polluted with these types, but it's allowed to be as it's externally focused (and the fascists will never betray Russia to external actors) and there are other intelligence apparatuses who can keep an eye on them (having your intelligence agencies spend half their time spying on and trying to politically sabotage each other isn't optimal, but when you can't trust any of them it's necessary).
Not as many as you think.
A lot of Imperial government officials were pardoned for their war crimes, and went on to illustrious careers as politicians in the new Japan.
Shinzo Abe's was one of these people.
He committed war crimes, but was "not convicted" by the US, and became a founder of the Liberal Democratic Party, the right-wing party that has ruled Japan pretty much nonstop since the end of the war.