His speech is very telling.
He’s basically saying that he doesn’t like how the budget is under scrutiny and wants to go back to the “old way” of just having the government give them whatever they want without scrutiny or questions.
Ridiculous.
Defeating China is as simple as denying them food and oil imports.
China has no ability to project power much further than the first island chain.
Nevermind.
I’ll await China to one day amass troops in Juarez because they gave Mexico medicine and food.
Then y’all will ask the wisdom of ignoring latin america, treating them like invading barbarians while we are off defending South Korea and Taiwan.
Absolutely.
Ukraine gives many lessons about fundamental issues in the Russian armed forces and intelligence communities, but it is incorrect to suggest that Russia is not still a significant technology developer with very real nuclear threats that must be countered.
They not gonna invade my friend.
LoL.
But we would be better off economically in the long term and safer strategically from aggression if we formed a cohesive single economic union with all of the Americas something akin to EU.
Then China, Russia or anybody else would have an ocean to cross before they could bother us.
As it stands they are free to make agreements in Venezuela, Cuba or anywhere they want and setup bases, troops etc.
They start with a foothold.
Follow our playbook with proxy wars.
Not rocket science.
They’ve already managed to manipulate our own drug war against us.
We aren’t that smart.
The United States military policy has moved from “field a quickly as possible” to “ensure robust operation when we eventually test and then eventually field” over the time since WWII which has dramatically slowed our development cycles.
While robust simulation and study has a role, what ADM Richard is saying here is that we need to accept more risk in programs to speed up - more flight tests, more exploratory analysis, and more capability to fail so we can learn from failure.