In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
The Nazi relationship with Christianity was…complicated.
Hitler, and the Nazi higher ups were not Christian.
In fact, Christianity was seen as a threat to Nazism, and the end goal was to abolish it and replace it with worship of the state of Germany itself.
But strait up abolishing Christianity was unfeasible at first, so instead the Nazis co-opted Christianity and christian nationalism to both bolster their own power, but also to slowly erode it to a point where they could eventually do away with it at some point after Lebensraum was achieved.
I like this take.
There's much to be done, and there's SO much middle ground to be had amongst ALL of We the People.
I thought that Biden really laid it out in the SOTU address.
It's like we're TRYING to pit the coasts against the heartland.
That's buuuullshit.
If we're gonna be a UNION of states, we need to get our poop in a group.
Who here does not want to get our infrastructure updated and safe?
Who here is NOT embarrassed by our lack of efficient public transportation?
I live in Nevada.
Has no one noticed that everything west of the Mississippi is a hundred miles apart?
That's about as far as a wagon train could make shit happen.
We can do better.
FFS- even on the east coast the best we have is the Acela.
Embarrassing.
On a busy weekend, you can spend an hour and a half going across the border from Nevada to California on interstate 15.
Embarrassing.
We could go from Los Angeles to Salt Lake in three hours, if we gave a shit.
We'll go to armed standoffs over an oil pipeline, but don't even think about piping catastrophic flood water from the Midwest to the eternally on fire west.
We can do better.
Highly disagree.
If the priority is to virtue signal and not to affect positive change, then that will work, and will alienate lots of potential voters that otherwise might vote for good things.
It’s obvious that Christian fascists are a huge problem, and they will not be convinced they’re wrong, but there are lots of Christian fence sitters that aren’t into the extreme cruelty that WILL take the statement as a personal insult because the media they listen to has ammo to spin it that way.
Is it better to yell at fascists or to defeat them?
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !