St. Petersburg's mayor, on the other hand, is a full on Z-ultrapatriot actively involved in this stuff.
My guess is it's because he feels his seat is vulnerable (he's in a feud with Prigozhin, who's rapidly gaining Putin's favor) and he has to lick Putin's ass even harder to keep it.
My guess is that once Russia gets pushed back to the pre-war borders (so Ukraine re-captures everything except Crimea and the small chunk of the Donbass the separatists took in 2014), most people in Putin's circle will realize they can't win and start looking for ways out.
Putin's utterly delusional, but he's not suicidal, so I doubt he's going to launch nukes as it won't achieve anything.
And even if he does, I don't think the people all the way down the chain of command would go along with it - everyone knows that if nukes fly, they're the first to either be killed in a return strike or sent to the Hague as terrorists.
At this point, people answer to Putin only because they're scared; if there was any respect prior to the war, it's certainly gone now.
I'm also weirdly confident that Prigozhin and other ultra-warhawks won't be relevant in the post-Putin power struggle.
There are far less people with an active pro-war position than it might look like from the outside - they're very loud, but I don't think they're more than 5-7% of the overall population of Russia.
And Prigozhin doesn't really appeal to anyone else - he desperately tries to build a macho image, but outside of the ultranationalist community he's still seen as a former criminal who gets off on death.
Also, by the time this power struggle happens people will get tired of the war and want it to end.
And Kadyrov - come on, you think the notably xenophobic people of Russia would tolerate a Chechen and openly Muslim guy in power!
?
Ukraine on the other hand had a multitude of presidents in the time span after the 90s, and due to the feelings of national pride and regaining of nation, set out on a path of rebuilding their nation (including deposing a Russian puppet), but its main concern wasn't to get back at the west for the collapse like Putin and his boomer supporters in Russia were.
Those thoughts alone made a huge difference.