In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Oh my!
Misinformation king speaks, again.
They didn't make a charge.
They made referrals of charges, as Congress can't charge.
You didn't win impeachments.
You lost.
You were impeached.
Twice.
It wasn't double jeopardy, as that is a legal process.
You were going through a political process.
Perhaps he didn't hear this from his quack 4-season lawyers.
Exactly.
It doesn’t really matter if Trump truly believes it or not.
What matters is that the statement will be used to further muddy the waters and drive even more division among people.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
"See they already tried me in the Senate and found me completely innocent, and they have this thing you know called Double Jeopardy, you know Alex Trebec, great friend of mine, I told him 'Hey you know what would be great, getting to bet $1000 even when you're in the negatives, not me though I'm very rich,' and you know I never liked asking a question for an answer, I mean it's called a question, doesnt really make sense, and yeah you have your Double Jeopardy like i said, great movie, Ashley Judd, not really my type, bad streak of luck just wants her son back, could shoot her husband on 5th avenue just like me and get re-elected, you know the Judd family are big fans of me, you got your Wynona and your Naomi, not like Naomi Campbell, America's Next Top Model, you know I was gonna host that originally but they said they needed a black woman and they couldn't get Oprah, you know Oh-Pruh, still not as rich as me but you know she just couldn't get in on the NFT's, you know the NFT's are like art but the mobsters haven't gotten in on it yet, very cutting edge technology you can just take any picture on the internet and sell it as an NFT and that's why they call me a very stable genius.
".