I don't know if anyone will see this but if you're interested in hearing a take from a liberal gun owner and 2A supporter, here it is.
There are so many issues that contribute to these attacks it's frustrating that we basically only hear 2 things from leaders.
Either take the guns or blame mental illness.
I honestly don't think a lot of democrats are truly behind their words when they say to start taking the guns.
They likely know that they can't but it's something to scream and then say the other side won't let them fix the problem when it doesn't happen.
And republicans blaming mental illness and saying they support mental health programs is a blatant lie when they refuse to help make sure that all Americans have the health coverage they need.
A huge problem with guns in the country is that you have the NRA that's been stirring fear in lawful gun owners for decades causing them to push for anti legislation of any kind.
So much so that the ATF can't even use computer systems for background checks.
Gun owners have been told that the ATF is the enemy and to make things worse the ATF has given lawful gun owners bad policy in return.
How you fix this idk.
Get rid of the NRA somehow and make a new department strictly for firearm regulations that create policies that are proven effective and don't hurt people rights?
Good luck.
Also, mental health care needs to actually be accessible.
This isn't just a mental health issue, it's a health care issue.
People cannot be expected to get mental healthcare if they need a specific job that will provide them specific insurance with mental health care and that insurance company will actually cover them.
I'm not an expert in the medical field by any means but I sought mental healthcare and was being seen by a doctor and my insurance wrote me a wonderful letter saying they wouldn't cover it because they didn't think I needed the care.
There was no way I could pay for the care out of pocket so I stopped seeking it.
This is unacceptable.
There are also other factors too like radicalized religious beliefs for motives for these attacks.
My fear is politicians don't want to go to the lenhs to do what's right and truly fix these deep flaws because it would require reaching across the aisle and losing them votes with their bases.
It's fucked all the way down.
Stochastic terrorism: The public demonization of a person or group resulting in the incitement of a violent act, which is statistically probable but whose specifics cannot be predicted: The lone-wolf attack was apparently influenced by the rhetoric of stochastic terrorism.