I don’t think he’s going to blow the dam.
I think he’s going to use their tactical nukes.
He can argue that he didn’t nuke another country since it is “Russian territory”.
He can claim he was defending it.
"Most likely our units, our soldiers, will leave for the left (eastern) bank," Kirill Stremousov, the Russian-installed deputy civilian administrator of the Kherson region, said in an interview with Solovyov Live, a pro-Kremlin online media outlet.
A senior Russian-installed occupation official said Russian forces were likely to abandon their foothold on the west bank of the Dnipro River in the Kherson area.
However, the Russian president is expected to seek to portray the withdrawal of troops, to the east side of the Dnipro River, as an evacuation.
Mr Putin’s generals are said to have the “intent” and “capability” to withdraw from Kherson, and to have set the “conditions” do to so, though, Russia may still decide not to follow through with such a plan.
Vladimir Putin has “well advanced” plans to order a retreat from Kherson, the largest city held by Russian forces in Ukraine, in another major setback for his invasion, western officials said on Thursday.
Ukraine maintains tight secrecy about the progress of its troops at the front in Kherson but has so far been publicly cautious about any suggestions that Russia is vacating positions there.
Ukrainian officials remained cautious about signs that Russia was abandoning the area, and there was silence from higher-ups in Moscow over the announcement of what would amount to one of Russia's most humiliating retreats since the invasion.
Natalia Humenyuk, head of the press centre for the Ukrainian military, said the removal of the Russian flag from atop the administration building in Kherson could be a Russian trap to lure Ukrainian troops into a reckless advance.
Speculation swirled on Thursday over whether Russia was indeed pulling out, after photos circulated on the internet showing the main administrative building in Kherson city with Russia's flag no longer flying atop it.