"Hitler himself possessed radical instincts in relation to the conflict with the Churches in Germany.
Though he occasionally spoke of wanting to delay the Church struggle and was prepared to restrain his anti-clericalism out of political considerations, his "own inflammatory comments gave his immediate underlings all the license they needed to turn up the heat in the Church Struggle, confident that they were 'working towards the Fuhrer,'" according to Kershaw.
[40] In public speeches, he portrayed himself and the Nazi movement as faithful Christians.
[43][44] In 1928 Hitler said in a speech: "We tolerate no one in our ranks who attacks the ideas of Christianity... in fact our movement is Christian.
"[45] But, according to the Goebbels Diaries, Hitler hated Christianity.
In an 8 April 1941 entry, Goebbels wrote "He hates Christianity, because it has crippled all that is noble in humanity.
"[46] In Bullock's assessment, though raised a Catholic, Hitler "believed neither in God nor in conscience", retained some regard for the organisational power of Catholicism, but had contempt for its central teachings, which he said, if taken to their conclusion, "would mean the systematic cultivation of the human failure".
[47][48] Bullock wrote: "In Hitler's eyes, Christianity was a religion fit only for slaves; he detested its ethics in particular.
Its teaching, he declared, was a rebellion against the natural law of selection by struggle and the survival of the fittest.
"[47].
"Pius’ supporters—many of whom have advocated for the pope’s canonization—point out that the Catholic Church saved thousands of Jews by hiding them in churches and monasteries across Italy, as well as in the Vatican itself.
Though acolytes argue that Pius’ inaction and silence allowed these secret actions to continue, critics cite the treatment of Jews living in Rome during World War II.
As NPR’s Sylvia Pogglioli points out, a plaque standing just 800 yards from St. Peter’s Square states, “On 16 October 1943 entire Jewish Roman families ripped from their homes by the Nazis were brought here and then deported to extermination camps.
Of more than 1,000 persons, only 16 survived.”.