In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
YES.
That’s the exact sentiment I’ve been trying to describe!
He’s like a shitty Bond villain.
Like Comic Book Guy from the Simpsons cosplaying as a Bond villain.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
This mentality is exactly why previously successful entrepreneurs are notoriously bad at investing.
They spend the early parts of their career hearing “no” a lot, become successful through hard work and luck (and some of their own talent), and become utterly convinced that they know more than everyone else.
If they have an contrarian idea, then it absolutely must be a genius-level thought, in their minds.
To believe that they’re fallible would destroy the mythos they’ve created for themselves.
Here’s a hypothetical scenario.
Ignoring whether I like or dislike Musk: What if he desperately decides there’s a need for rapid and radical change.
To save humanity.
And he happens to loves change.
He thinks he is the person for the job.
But he becomes disillusioned by the left as more of the same headed on a downward spiral.
They are impeding his grand plans.
And he thinks that the change will bring suffering to people and hatred upon him but it’s better than a doomed species so he does it anyway ?
??.
I personally think Musk is creepy.
But even him or Putin is nice compared to a Klingon or Genghis Khan?
.
Perhaps they don’t think they are that evil but just doing what is necessary.
Their perspectives are different from the common man.
What if this is truly what they believe.
They really believe they are humanities saviors.
I’ll call it savior complex.
Combined with grandiose narcissism.
With a big enough platform to gaslight a entire country.
They would use whatever tools they can muster to attain their schemes.
Switching parties or trashing companies are just pawns for the grand scheme.