I wonder if the Russian population believes they are in the right..I hate to throw around “what about-isms” but like with The US and Iraq.
As a American I was young but remember post 9/11 clearly.
After that when we heard the false information of WMD’s and that they were a threat to us I feel like the majority of the nation was more then on board for an all out “defensive” offensive.
Given the climate of post 9/11, terror attacks in the US And Europe, anthrax, Open threats from Terrorist groups.
It was a no brainer.
Shock and Awe was perfectly used we were willing and ready to wage war on people we believed wanted and were actively trying to..we’ll massacre us.
Idk I know this has no correlation to the Russians and Ukrainians but it makes you think..
I don’t look at Iraqi war veterans in a negative light at all..they answered the call to defend our country from what we all believed the be a legitimate threat to our very existence.
What I’m trying to say is do the majority of people who aren’t currently fighting in Russia what’s stopping them from believing they are in the right if that’s the information they are given?
Like I said two very different situations with the US and Iraq but I’m speaking of the information factor.
How do you combat that?
Or with todays tech do u think they have the access to the truth but just..not do anything about their genocidal invasion?
I just can’t imagine regardless of your nationality how things like Ukraine and currently Iran happen..the number of people willing to commit murder on the behave of dictators for no feasible reasons.
Idk I’m stoned and there’s a lot going on to think about it’s 2022 and look at the state of the world..wonder if the day ever comes countries all just find a balance.
thrive in their cultures and religions while maintaining peace within the borders of the world.
The trillions upon trillions of dollars an unimaginable about of possibility’s for the Human race.
We could literally in this moment in time with the resources we have and the brilliant minds carve out a chunk in the universes history book and for eons they would look back and ponder how we were able to do all these extraordinary things and be in a different type of shock and awe.
I feel the time is coming for a huge change in the world.
The younger generations are craving change, in todays sad and scary times I do have a good feeling about the future still.
Alright my stoned ass is done peace and love to you all.
Considering how many of them had their offshore assets frozen or seized because of economic sanctions, the ones who still have money made a choice between an IOU from Russia's treasury that probably won't get paid back but might possibly be honored by whoever replaces Putin or leaving the money sitting overseas to be claimed under the color of war where it might be funneled to Ukraine's defense.