Ukraine has already attacked many military targets inside Russia, some have been hundreds of kilometers over the border.
Ukraine is absolutely 100% within their right to do so until Russian aggression ceases and Russia withdraws from all areas of Ukraine including Crimea.
5.
A month from now almost everything but the Crimea is evacuated of most "Z"-marks and Putin marks the successful defense of Russia against the Nazi/NATO regime (look at how good our border defenses are with all these men and equipment!
).
>According to two InformNapalm HUMINT sources close to the DPR fighters, there is a high probability that several Orthodox churches in Donetsk and other settlements in the occupied territories of the Russians may be mined and detonated during the festive morning service on January 7th in order to film propaganda scenes for a domestic Russian audience and thus initiate an informational occasion for a new wave of mobilization.
The information was received on January 4th and 5th, but we were trying to collect additional data.
We believe that Putin's public statement regarding his intentions to declare a "ceasefire regime", which appeared in the afternoon, may be indirect evidence of informational preparation for the specified terrorist act in the spirit of operations "under a foreign flag" already common for the Russian Federation.
According to one of the sources, at the places where churches get blown up, the Russians' plan to bring HIMARS' fragments taken from other places of explosions in the plots for propaganda.
We have very little time left to collect additional evidence, so we are releasing this incomplete data in the hope that the Russians' plan will be thwarted by publicity.
Currently, we do not have data on the specific locations of mines, so we call on all peaceful residents of the occupied territories to refrain from visiting churches, so as not to become a victim of Russia's bloody provocation.
Celebrate Christmas at home with your family and avoid crowded places.