In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Absolutely.
Their role is only to spew venom and distract from their incompetence.
The far right is utterly unable to come up with solutions to ANY valid, existing problem so they come up with theatrics to non-existing ones.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
This is just a continuation of a pattern that has been repeated over and over again, from blaming The Indigenous nations and the subsequent genocide that is still happening today, to Hitler’s hyperfocus and murder of Jews, to far right terrorists storming the capitol because their orange shit gibbon figurehead told them the democrats were cheating and the election was being stolen.
They're not.
For many conservatives, their fear lies in the creeping overt indoctrination practices so many in the "pro-trans" community seem to practice.
The right fears the queer community's efforts to gaslight animosity from the right in their attempt to foster the institutionalizing of special rights for those self-identifying as queer.
As I pointed out in my post, one of the things many on the right mistrust of the current trans popularity movement is the push by so many in the queer community for "special rights and privileges".
What starts with the traditional "we're allowed to name call and use classic 'S.I.G.N.'
language techniques (Shame, Insults, Guilt, Need to be right) in blaming all members of the right for the individual sins of an isolated few...soon becomes many in the trans community demanding special rights and privileges that recognize and protect their gender identity beyond what all Americans already share equally.
Are members of the LGBTQ+ community being attacked and victimized on a wide scale basis throughout the country, by bigoted members of the far-right, for no other reason than being innocent members of the LGBTQ+ community?
The FBI and the criminal justice community says NO.
There is simply no evidence to support this claim.