In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Disagree.
To us trump looks like a kindergarten student but his base loves him.
Look what happened last week.
DT read his announcement speech Instead of winging it.
Trash and low energy.
Nick Fuentes goes to dinner with him and says stay off script.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Yeah, by actually enforcing consequences.
In the same way consequences need to be enforced for state prosecutors who fight to keep innocent people in prison, people who have been exonerated by incontrovertible DNA evidence that flies in the face of the reasoning behind their conviction, people who have had to sit in prison for decades serving time for a crime because other state officials (lawyers, cops, judges) campaigned on their guilt in some form or another.
Given that they’re innocent, this generally means bullshit charges and falsified “damning” evidence and covered up exculpatory evidence.
1.
Trump runs MAGA.
People are still there specifically for the trump show and they’ll show up for a contested primary, and if he loses that primary they won’t show up for the general.
You also have to consider that if he has a primary fight and loses there is a 0% chance that he will accept the results and tell his voters to vote for DeSantis.
He will claim the whole thing is rigged and that he actually won.
It’ll take all the air out of Desantis’s campaign even if he wins the primary because he’s going to be forced into party infighting to address the claims and it’s very hard to consolidate a party following a nasty primary if the loser’s supporters felt slighted.
In 2016 Bernie lost and supported Hilary 100% after losing.
A sizable portion of his voters sat out or even voted for trump.
Imagine what would happen if Bernie failed to support Hilary and claimed he was cheated.