You keep saying they publish this stuff in the name of free speech.
You don’t have to like or appreciate the magazine but I think they think about it differently, I think they feel they have something to say and since they are free to say it, they do.
This is protected by their Constitution, by UN treaties, by the EU.
The leaders Iran have complained non stop about the USA, UK and Europe, often rightly so, for decades.
No one puts out a fatwah on them for hating us or ridiculing us.
I have zero patience with this argument against speech.
Scientific racism originated from a rationalist belief that all of humanity could be classified into categories like species.
Simplifying historical phenomenon to just "greed" is also unrealistic.
The driving force of climate change is the capitalist economy that requires continued reproduction of capital through profit.
Something that only became possible once the whole world was converted into prices and commodities, another production of rationalism.
That's not to say that the scientific revolution was bad, it's also brought great benefits to humanity.
Its just that it is also a fundamentally limited paradigm of analysis.
The Enlightenment wasn't the end of knowledge, nor does knowledge have an end at all.
I think its ridiculous to think that the Enlightenment was the end of history.
In fact, a lot of people during the period themselves, such as Rousseau, did not think that Reason was the absolute truth.
The positivist framework of a Newtonian universal mechanism just doesn't hold true in the face of quantum mechanics and advances in theoretical mathematics.
And its not like the Enlightenment led to much of a straight upwards path of humanity as an absurd Whig History.
Scientific racism, imperialism, the gas chambers, climate change, industrial war on a whole new scale of destruction were all the products of the Scientific Revolution.
I agree.
However, we should respect other people's beliefs even if we found them ludicrous.
Otherwise, we can't demand respect from them towards our way of life.
Modern Conservatism is cancer.
It is the root cause of all our current problems and I'm fucking tired of the rest of us walking on eggshells around that fact.