r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Historically?
Well what about currently?
Because currently governments are vastly better at educating large volumes of people than charities.
WWJD?
I'm pretty sure not any of those things.
People don't dislike Jesus.
They dislike the people who claim to worship him.
Besides general secularization (worldwide trend), American Christianity is bleeding membership for two main reasons:
At any rate, it doesn’t matter what you call it.
Charity is a virtue, to be sure, but ultimately it’s a band-aid on deeper systemic problems, and it is proven to be less effective at improving people’s conditions than actual structural reforms.
Changing individual lives, perhaps, is best accomplished by personal connection and charity, but we’re talking about what’s most effective in general.
Sadly, charity alone is insufficient, which is why structural changes are necessary.
Charity alone is insufficient as compared to structural reforms, which produce better outcomes for those in need—or preventing people from being in need—at a large scale.
Worse, charity can be used as a kind of excuse or distraction in service of the political agendas of people who don’t want deep, systemic problems to be solved.
The primary issue with relying on charity alone to solve problems is that it is both inconsistent and mostly reactive rather than proactive.
Charity can send earthquake aid to Turkey and Syria, and that’s a good thing.
But what about enforcing building codes, cracking down on corruption, and thereby preventing tens of thousands of people from dying or needing charity in the first place?
How would charity go about accomplishing that, when active emergencies and disasters are so much more demanding of attention and donations than the boring but necessary work of upkeeping society?
For instance, places like Haiti have received a huge amount of charity, but although charity is useful for meeting people’s immediate needs, it doesn’t actually solve the problems that plague their nation.
Only structural solutions will do that.