So you’re post intrigued me, as I’ve never heard of Bob Jones.
I read the handbook….
as a lonime New Yorker, raised agnostic, that went to what I thought was a “religious school” (ole miss.
For one year.
Then trump got elected and the kkk kept rolling up on campus so I went back to Manhattan)….
I wouldn’t have lasted 24 hours.
10:30 curfew???
There’s a curfew FOR ADULTS?
Side hugs permitted for photographs???
Mixed groups of more than 3?
So 2 girls and a guy can’t study group??
Jesus fuck why is this place allowed to be called an institution for higher learning.
Half of the point of college in the US is to learn how to navigate social situations without parental oversight.
This is fucking batshit.
A bill introduced in the Florida state legislature last week would ban gender studies programs from the state’s public colleges and universities, as well as “intersectionality” and “critical race theory,” two other concepts Republicans across the country have made a sought to eliminate from public and private institutions.
Most jobs.
Liberal arts degrees are more transferable than STEM degrees.
Gender studies involves a lot of nuance.
Republicans have made diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts a bogeyman in their fight to implement conservative ideology across Florida’s entire education system.
But that's not the case right now, right?
And presently, they are in fact relying heavily on loans that they struggle to pay back?
They have picked a major that they "want you to pay for"?
The bill, HB 999, would allow members of the university system’s Board of Governors, most of whom were appointed by DeSantis, to “provide direction to each constituent university on removing from its programs any major or minor in Critical Race Theory, Gender Studies, or Intersectionality, or any derivative major or minor of these belief systems,” according to the bill text.
They aren't scared of gender studies.
They view these things as easy targets to rile up their base because they don't want to campaign on economic or tax policy.