In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Exactly.
Right wingers all think they're going to be the ones tossing people out of windows for stupid reasons, not the ones getting tossed when their masters run out of easily accessible enemies and manufacture new ones to keep machine fed.
It’s infuriating.
Do they honestly think that once DeSantis burns down all the libraries and is receiving daily reports on every teen girl’s menstrual periods, that he’s not eventually coming after their guns?
It’s insane to me how republicans pushing hard for an authoritarian shift, seemingly aware that authoritarians, once in power have no sides and no loyalties because they don’t need them.
The Prince ought to be required reading for every republican.
The alliances dictators build to get into power often become liabilities once they’re in power.
The people (your own kingmakers) that enable your ascent to power are the exact people who have proven their ability to enable your replacement’s ascent, and must therefor be tightly controlled.
How do they not know this?
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
These types will whitewash history and try to rationalize Putin's autocratic agenda, drumming up conspiracies and repeating actual Russian propaganda in order to justify Putin's "special military operation", making Ukraine out to be the villain in this war.
This is a really important point.
I don’t think anyone in the GOP is angling to actually have a Putin someday, largely because Putin occasional “defenestrates” the richest and most powerful oligarchs from time to time.
But there are other authoritarian, “neo-fascist” dictators that the GOP mainstream idolizes.
I think Hungary is almost the exact prototype that the GOP is trying to mimic here in the US.