They already did that, the House of Lords only serves to knock back legislation for reassessment, they can't permanently block anything.
If they could, fucking Brexit never would've happened...
Dangerous??
lmao what fucking century do you live in?
Unicameralism is the standard in every good functional democracy.
It's bicameralism that creates pointless obstructionism, as you need both houses to agree on everything.
Hence why the US political system is broken irrevocably.
Guaranteed?
Let's say your company has 1000 workers.
The possibility for you having one of them selected is: 43.24%... every one hundred years!
Or 2.89% every election.
So now you want to tell me that a company of 1000 people can't work with such odds?
Really play a bit with the numbers and you will see this is a non-issue...
I can tell you this from an African’s experience with democracy on the continent and how the early unicameral legislatures of the early post colonial period facilitated both the centralization of power (frequently culminating in dictators) and the necessity of ethnic sepretsism (so everyone gets their own majorities).
I can tell you this from an African’s experience with democracy on the continent and how the early unicameral legislatures of the early post colonial period facilitated both the centralization of power (frequently culminating in dictators) and the necessity of ethnic sepretsism (so everyone gets their own majorities).
Save money?
Simplify the government by reducing unnecessary positions and processes?
Finally bring Britain into the light of liberal democratic modernity where you're supposed to be ashamed to have hereditary aristocrats and royalty in your government?
I'm a software engineer.
Also saying that this aren't real jobs only shows your elitism and why we have shortages in exactly this "not real" jobs.
Also it shows that people can't count on you because you made yourself somehow irreplaceable with no way to recover if something unexpected should happen to you.
Maybe you don't understand that you sabotaging your co-works to reduce the possibility of getting replaced isn't something good... (maybe for you but not for them or the company).
Also you don't seem to understand that such a high amount of irreplaceability only is real for a very small amount of the working population.
Are you just full of yourself?
As we can see you are extremely bad with numbers, so what is your job?
The argument is that these bodies are there to prevent the tendency of large diverse societies to fragment across a broad number of cross cutting division (ethnic, religious, political, social, regional etc) without adequate systems in place to blance the inherent majoritarian tendencies of mass politics.
So what?
There is already a giant set of other possibilities that could remove one of your best employees for a long time that have a higher possibility.