NATO and Soviet designs weren't made with the intent of fighting vehicles similar to themselves.
NATO nations designed their vehicles with the intent of fighting Soviet designs, and the Soviets designed theirs to fight NATO's.
Yes other nations, namely the former Warsaw Pact/ComBloc nations sent vehicles to Ukraine, but they were of Soviet designs, which weren't designed with the intent of fighting other Soviet designed vehicles.
While other nations have already supplied vehicles to Ukraine, they were ones that were either unchanged Soviet designs or were upgraded variants.
Similarly, while Soviet vehicles can easily fight ones of their own design, the war in Ukraine emphasized some critical design flaws, including some that Ukraine almost certainly wants to get away from.
Most notably being the ammo stowage for the autoloader on the T-72/T-90 and T-64/T-80 designs.
Where NATO nations store ammo in a separate compartment with failsafes such as a blast door and blowout panels to protect the crew in the fighting compartment should the primary stowage is hit and the the ammunition detonates, the Soviet designs instead placed the ammuntion in a carousel encasing the turret basket, meaning the tank's commander and gunner are surrounded by the ammunition.
As a result, the crew are screwed in the event the ammunition detonates, and the vehicle will be a total loss, as you can see from wrecks in Ukraine, ones where the turrets are sent flying from the force caused by ammunition detonation.
Most notably the ammo stowage and autoloader design, which has proved to be a critical design flaw resulting in very easy destruction of Russian armored units.
NATO nations have long since put an emphasis on crew protection and survivability, and have incorporated ways of helping the crew survive getting hit, especially in regards to potential ammo detonations.
I mean, yes you are right.
This is more like a RC.
I was referring to the actual definition of a tank.
This can be considered a light tank, due to weight class and main gun.
Sweden's Stridsvagn are modern, and still considered tank destroyers despite the term not being used for a while.
Anyway nice chat!
i can see you know your stuff.
In addition, Soviet designs are apparently very maintenance heavy, and actual Russian produced vehicles have been revealed to have severe quality issues.
The maintenance part in particular has come back to haunt Russian forces, as a lack of maintenance for decades resulted in much of their armored forces breaking down, both prior to combat and being abandoned once in or near it.
NATO designs, in contrast, don't have the quality issue and have been kept maintained even if the vehicles were sitting in warehouses.
And as an added bonus, having NATO hardware can help easing into NATO standardization when Ukraine begins to attempt to join NATO, thanks to the Russian invasion.