I think the label mentally ill is a very large spectrum and encompasses things like addiction, depression and even anxiety.
But to say that mental illness is a major factor, I think is not fair to people who have mental illness problems like schizophrenia and those types of people are not very likely to commit mass murders.
So in regards to the mental illness, I believe that the lesser side of the spectrum such as depression, anxiety and the feeling of alienation which can often be caused by depression is one of the reasons these people latch on to extremist ideals because these people preach what a lot of people think and thinking something, preaching something, and acting on something are all very different spectrums.
I can think about how much I dislike somebody and how I might want to punch them in the face.
I can say I want to punch somebody in the face but I'm not going to go and punch somebody in the face because I can contain my emotions enough to refrain from physically attacking somebody.
Now people with depression can oftentimes have extreme mood swings and I'm not necessarily saying like manic for bipolar disorder or manic depression.
I'm talking about just regular depression.
You can still have peaks and valleys.
It's just not as extreme as it is in manic depressives and bipolar disorder.
Now you have major news outlets like Fox News, normalizing violence against people with different ideologies.
It's just a matter of time until things boil over.
This coupled with the readily available arsenal at most Americans fingertips and it is readily available for most Americans.
You literally just have to go and buy a gun.
It is not hard so whoever says it's hard to get a gun is full of shit.
I live in California.
I can literally go up the street and in 2 weeks ish have a fire arm.
They need to run a background check and that's it.
Honestly we haven't even dabbled in Christian fanaticism which is always violent.
And if you don't believe me, just check out the 1994 massacre of the tutsi done in the name of the Man God Yeshua (Jesus).
Just one more example of some 20th century Christian violence go take a look in Germany at the I think it's 6 bells in Catholic churches that still have Nazi logo on it.
So in conclusion, I think it's an amalgamation of everything I said previously just combined with economic uncertainty, causing a complete and utter breakdown of any sort of coherent thought in people with extremist ideologies.
BOOM!
shit reaches a flash point and we have more mass shooting than days in the year.
The stigmatize the mentally ill while simultaneously providing no solution whatsoever.
Literally nothing.
I get that they don't want background checks tightened up or anyone to be prevented from an AR 15, but could they at least provide SOME attempt at a potential solution?
Even a shitty one?