It's to the point people who are anti union are pretending to support these workers just to own the libs.
People who have never been pro-union are pretending to support this just to own the libs.
Conservatives who have voted for corporate welfare would absolutely blame liberals for the resulting problems.
3.
GOP will blame unions and Dems no matter what.
Short term inflation spikes and economic damage are just that short term.
If it’s really as bad as people claim the RR company will be back at the bargaining table in no time because they are owned by firms that have side reaching economic interests.
They don’t think the RR workers will actually strike because they knew the GOP would force this shitty contract on to the workers with the help of the dems.
But if they actually do strike you would liekly see concessions imo.
If you really think that workers are being abused and mistreated the only way to resolve that is through a strike.
But if you’re only concerned with short term political msnbc brain then long terms struggles like labor will always come secondary.
Everything said about RR unions striking is propaganda that’s been used against unions for centuries even as they won all of the major economic benefits we take for advantage that have been flawed back for the last few decades.
A win for RR workers through striking is a win for all workers.
Have some solidarity and stop thinking about everything through the lens of electoral politics because everybody will forget about this entire thing two years from now when another election actually happens.
All the democrats have done is reinforce the idea that they will side with management over workers and that management can keep putting the screws to workers with no consequence.
They certainly don’t have to fear any class solidarity.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Exactly.
They reveal that they are just as right wing as the republicans.
They are anti union pro corporations.
Biden and the democrats got a big boost from Gen Z and millenials and they turn around show them them that they only care about the 1% whom they serve.