Can you think of another country that has invaded a smaller and weaker country, with flimsy and concocted evidence, then occupied it for decades, looted and stolen with stories of rape and other atrocities by its troops?
What happened to that country after they invaded a weaker and smaller country?
Were they demonized for decades, had sanctions placed on them, had military bases built by their adversaries on their borders, had the property of its citizens appropriated, had to face meddling in their and their neighbors internal affairs?
Now get this, this very same country is at the supposed moral vanguard of fighting Russia.
The mind boggles.
Finally: Russia's very military doctrine, unchanged since before the Soviet Union, is based on using massed artillery to bomb entire cities to rubble, in order to capture them.
As opposed to NATO strategy, which relies on air superiority, and precision strike weapons which are deployed at great cost, specifically to AVOID unintentional civilian casualties (to the extent that it's technically feasible).
For the Russian army, civilian casualties are a side-benefit of their doctrine, and intentional.
And where NATO destroys cities (like Fallujah), it's usually the result of Russian-trained commanders (in this case Iraqis) who do this based on Russian doctrine: Iraq was a Russian Client State from the 1960's to 1990's, their equipment was Russian, their training was Russian, and their officers were trained in strategy by Russia.
So it shouldn't shock anyone that when the US has fought Russian aggression via proxies, that we end up with massive destruction and suffering of civilians.
NATO and the US did the entire middle east (including some not so-friendly nations like Iran) a massive favor by disarming the Russian Proxy; Iraq, and the danger they posed to the entire middle-east.
Was liberating Kuwait worth it?
Hell no.
But the next move was Saudi Arabia, (and probably the other Emirates as well), and if you think gasoline was expensive when OPEC voluntarily cut production in 2020 (thanks to Trump), that's nothing compared to what it would cost if Russian Proxy Iraq had taken over KSA (and etc) and started using that market power control to constrain production and strangle western economies.