For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
No.
I remember when the “lab leak” theory was, like a lot of conservative lines, endlessly repeated without evidence, and then when they’re called out for their lack of evidence, all the Joe Rogans and Tuckers and Hannitys of the world scream from their shows, all of which are WILDLY more popular and have bigger audiences than anything on the left, that they’re being SILENCED AND CENSORED AND CANCELLED, as they’re on the way to cash their giant ass checks at the bank.
You're right.
Maybe I was a little off base.
I think it's fine for things to not completely add up.
As you said, often out thinking is too shallow.
It can often be very challenging to get the whole picture.
For example: The Moon landing deniers point out the lack of stars or odd shadows in the pictures as evidence of a forgery, and in their mind things don't add up - but with a more complete understanding of optics and the photographic equipment of the time, coupled with a zero atmosphere environment, things to make sense.
I like Biden.
But if it was Biden who ran such a mind bogglingly poor campaign strategy, I wouldn't be saying he was done dirty either, I'd just be calling him stupid.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Remember, the Democratic primaries have proportional allocation of delegates.
So it doesn't really matter who comes in first, if the person coming in first still has just 25 or 30% of the vote.
Especially when that "someone" is someone whose campaign is especially anti-establishment to the point where they can't really expect to get support from delegates of other candidates in a brokered convention - so he'd basically need to get an outright majority of pledged delegates in order to have a chance of winning.
He literally dominated it so much in polls that even if the other candidates didn't drop out, it's likely that they wouldn't have gotten above the line of viability and thus would have earned no delegates anyway.