Coal and oil will continue toincrease in use until at least mid century.
Quite substantially as subsaharan Africa adds another billion people, Indian another half billion.
Doubly so as industry shifts away from Europe to these regions.
Obviously there are other costs , installation and maintenance and failing panels replacement etc but i seriously think this is doable and would benefit the UK like no other project ever has( well other than the government upgrading homes to all have indoor plumbing and the existing electric grid and the phone system and roads, well yeah ), to not only become a green energy country but to enable advancements in the technology that could be sold to other countries as i am sure many would be looking at doing the same when they saw the UK gain almost zero fossil fuel use for energy.
And where are you getting this fact?
Did you take into account that batteries can be somewhat recycled?
what about future tech on improving the batteries?
why don't we start with a platform that allows us to use any kind of energy source instead of limiting to just gas forever?
did you ever think of that?
There are a few countries that have been installing solar panels on all new builds and they are reaping the benefits of electricity generated in crazy high amounts that will eventually provide enough energy to shutter some fossil fuel energy sources.
It's that £40k per house?
I researched a bit.
Check solar panel prices on Alibaba, at $0.21/watt.
A 6kW array costs exactly £1200.00 after vat.
Resellers here ask 3x for exactly the same panels.
Do not put optimisers/microinverters, they are a complete scam that increases cost by at least 2x.
Get a hybrid inverter with 2 MPPT strings and battery capability for £1000.
Use an immersion heater boiler as a "battery", you will shower daily anyway.
Later get a cheaper air-to-water heat pump for £2k, for hot water.
And a separate Daikin high-COP AC for heating/cooling.
£2k.
Yes oil or gas power the electric generating power stations but every year more and more clean energy sources are being built and producing right now about 30% of America's electricity consumption from green energy alone,and that is growing faster every year.
I Personally believe there will always be gas powered and oil powered power plants around the world as top up or backup power sources, but as solar and other systems spread more and more fossil fuels plants are becoming obsolete.
Right now solar is providing savings of over 70 billion worldwide and as it grows every year it will soon encourage the closure of some fossil fuel electricity generating plants.
And remember this is only solar there are also huge saving with wind and other clean energy sources saving just as much if not even ore than solar as there has been a massive investment in them.
Also the Uk has some of the best minds and although solar panels are now very efficient compared to what has gone before and can generate electricity even when there is cloud cover i am sure the Brits could innovate and create a much better system cheaper and longer lasting.
Damn we can buy a 500 watt panel now and they can go up to 700 watts per panel used in solar farms , that was unheard of a few years ago.