look, you have a lot of people, Very Smart People, and I happen to be one of them, went to Wharton, Great School, I got All A's, not even one B, Perfect Score, and they said, "Trump's a Genius, maybe even a Super Genius," and then you have others, a lot of Great Lawyers and some of the Top Doctors of the Country, and I'm not talking about Medical Doctors but you know the Fake News is going to try telling you that, and by the way, I also won President on the First Try, don't forget that, it's never been done until I did it, and George Washinon, who probably gets more Credit than he deserves, he did some Very Bad Things to Some People, and they say we have a Constitution, which is an Overrated and Outdated Piece of Paper, they say it should be Terminated, it's Out of Date, we don't need it anymore.
and you should be able to do it, when you don't want to have something anymore, you should be able to Terminate, that's all I'm saying.
but we need a New Constitution, under Trump, like they say, "Under God," but now we say Under Trump, and you could maybe do what Putin did, he was President then he made something above that, then he was that, and now he just owns Russia, and a lot of other things, believe me.
remember, before I came in, you had Obama, and he was letting us get Crushed by the Chinese, Iran and North Korea were walking all over us, President Putin was laughing at us for 8 years, and on Day One you got Total Respect for President Trump, Total Respect.
all of a sudden they're saying, these Great Leaders and all of these people who are running Countries that are supposed to be so Tough, they're calling me, "Sir, Sir, thank you, Sir, we love you Mr. President, way more than Obama," and I won't tell you who, but almost all of them, maybe even President Xi, but I didn't say that, I would never say that, but he likes me a lot I can tell you that much.
no one's done more for America than I have, we never had a Better World, we never had a Greater Country than we did under Trump.
and now, now you look at it, Sleepy Joe has turned us into a 4th World Country, ok, enjoy your weekend, have a Beautiful Time.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !