They actually travel around to former extermination camps and say “Look There’s a sign that says this was an extermination camp, and this very spot is where a gas chamber once stood.
But why would you tear down the building when it held so much historical significance?
You would want to leave it in place as a reminder of what happened.
But there was never anything here, because nothing happened.
They can put up all the fake pictures they want, but the truth is right here.
There’s nothing”.
Turkish genocide deniers says that, all at once, the Armenian genocide didn't happen, that the numbers for the Armenian genocide are exaggerated, that the Armenians were only relocated, that the Armenians weren't present in Anatolia as much others claim, that the Ottomans and not turkey committed the genocide, and that the Armenians attacked Turkish villagers and the Ottomans retaliated, and that the Armenians committed genocide towards Turkish people.
3.
Some are willing to say that lots of people were murdered by the Nazis but that Jews either exaggerate their numbers, or that the Nazis weren't expressly targeting Jews for extermination: These people are not necessarily pro-Nazi, but they want to deny that antisemitism was central Nazi ideology or even deny that antisemitism was commonplace in Europe, (This was a very common falsehood promoted in the Soviet Bloc countries where government apparatchiks would accuse researchers of "separating the dead").
Thanks.
I don’t recall the names of all the experts.
I know architectural issues were important.
The deniers would/will grab hold of some minor detail and try and blow it up into a major issue.
E.g., one was whether the stacks the gas was dropped down were staggered or in a row.
Another issue was about whether poison was detected in the material.
(One study said no, but it was shown they tested an outer wall and poorly.
Better studies found it as expected.
).
Otto Frank also edited out at least some mentions of Judaism (especially in the English language version) since he wasn't as interested in Jewish identity as either of his daughters were, and also because Doubleday Books advised him that the book would sell better in America if the book were not so Jewish in content.
It’s awesome.
Brace yourself, it’s tough stuff to read day in and day out for a while.
And it ramps up a bit explaining some of the background to the arguments that led to the trial.
That’s dense but useful.
But it’s quite a read.