Regardless of who the GOP nominee is for POTUS none will get elected.
Their margin for error is thin.
The far right of the party has turned to extremism with its openly racist bigoted misogynistic antisemitic homophobic mouthpieces.
A GOP POTUS candidate will have to pander to the extreme right because the conservative party shrinks with each passing year as the left side of America grows.
Right-winger extremists or white nationalists or evangelical right and on and on.
GOP has to appeal to these groups in order to win general elections like POTUS or governor or senator etc.
A national election makes a GOP candidate winning POTUS unlikely.
Any subtle or direct pandering to these groups makes it easy for the other side to attack whoever without mercy.
Moderate Republicans are tired of Trump and his cult and that's rooted in fact because Trump backed candidates lost a lot to either GOP establishment candidates or to the left in general elections.
With two years of the house GOP circus making things worse for the GOP it's really easy to see the razor thin balancing act they are facing.
Way to early to say a blue wave is coming but the normal order of things has been altered with the GOP failing to make gains in congress.
No red wave.
Barely even a drip.
Senate control they've lost and house has a razor thin majority which doesn't look good considering new faces in the GOP ran on actual issues and not two years of rabbit hole hunter Biden investigations.
Trump refusal as POTUS to let anyone testify has set a precedent that's going to make it hard for the GOP to get anywhere.
GOP house has no choice because they have no policies or ideas to solve problems.
There are Republican voters who have openly said Hunter, Fauci investigations and or constant Biden impeachment threats are not what they want.
Chunk of conservative voters want progress and if the house GOP is seen as standing in the way then '24 could be a huge defeat for the GOP.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !