Statistically, I think a very small number of refugees return to their home land.
No one, if they can help it, wants to live through a recovery/rebuild.
You set roots in a new place, and it becomes familiar and a new home.
Thought of going back and starting from nothing a second time is too daunting.
I'd be surprised if more than 20% return.
If anything, there might be another exodus once the war ends and men are able to rejoin their families living abroad.
If you can start a new life in Germany or America, why would you go back to Donbas, let's say.
There is nothing there left anyways besides rubble.
There might be nothing to return to.
I don't know.
That's just my guess.
We largely define ourselves by our nationality (with the exclusion of ethnic minorities like Crimean Tatars, Cossacks of Don or of Zaporozhye etc) and not our ethnicity.
Given the shared history of our two countries, it's nearly impossible to even determine it.
The poster above was most likely referring to the Russian-speaking people from the eastern parts of Ukraine (they were evacuated the most) who nevertheless define themselves as Ukrainians, so calling them "ethnically Russian" would be incorrect and even kinda crass tbh.
It is also the basis of Putin's propaganda and the backlash of a Ukrainian one: Russian-speaking Ukrainians from the East (especially Donbass territory) are often marginalised and called "rusnya" (racist slur for Russians) by their Ukrainian-speaking compatriots, so it's just hurtful all around.
Are you an "ethnic Ukrainian" or an "ethnic Russian" if you come from both sides of the border - which is the case for many, many people in Russia and Ukraine?
Also, "ethnic Russians living in Ukraine" is funny.
They are called Ukrainians.
Don't parrot Putin's propaganda about those mythical "ethnic Russians living in Ukraine" please.
:/.
I am sure that many of the refugees, after years of work, will not want to lose most of their belongings for the second time and will not move back, especially if they are among those whose houses and cities were completely destroyed and only ruins await them.
Relatives.
A lot of Ukrainians have relatives in Russia, seeing that we used to be one country at some point, and after the division the border control and immigration policy were very lax until about 2012-14.
Think like Canada-US interconnectedness, it's about the same - used to be.