Back before cable TV broadcast television stations had to apply to the FCC for a license.
Part of the requirements were to dedicate a portion of broadcast time to serve the public good.
Advertising could not be sold during this time frame.
The networks chose the dinner hour as it was the least watched period of time ( television stations stopped broadcasting each night and resumed the next morning so no overnight) as the time to donate.
And reading the days news ( at first directly from the days newspapers) was the cheapest way to do this.
What came as a surprise was the popularity of this new concept and so network news divisions were born.
Now these new divisions could not sell commercials so they were beholden to no one, and by now they were very popular.
These news programs prided themselves with delivering a straight forward straight faced fact based program.
Quite frankly these programs were as dry as toast with the best broadcasters not giving any hint of opinion.
It was considered a disgrace to the profession of journalism to offer any type of opinion, personal or corporate while on the air.
And that’s when the news was, well, the news.
I don't understand how a man aspires to be the worst human being on the planet, betraying the country that made it possible for his family to become hugely affluent, and having absolutely no need or reason to support the destruction of the working class in favor of autocracy.
He never had any economic reason to excuse the cruelty of his demonstrated actions toward his fellow man.
He never had to work a day in his life.
People might wonder why he would spend his life inflicting further damage upon the poor, and the immigrants, and the minorities.
Absent any economic interest, it would appear that the answer is simple Republican cruelty.
His daily skewed and totally partisan tirades of propaganda and outright lies have damaged our nation for far too long.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !