The things we are giving them are older.
As much as people complain there is a savings to not having to maintain all that equipment that’s sent over.
It’s a complex system but you see on the Russian side what lack of maintenance and upgrading has done to harm their army.
To quote one of my favorite Reddit comments of this was “they’re about to find out why America doesn’t have free healthcare” I.e.
a well maintained arsenal of weapons.
The problem is that the comparison is not only ill-conceived, concerning two completely different countries and two completely different political situations, the argument is also flawed logically.
Cool.
I don't think you know what American Liberals even are if you think they are childish and war mongering you have no idea what American politics is ACTUALLY like.
It sounds like you are regurgitating word soup.
If you insist on comparing apples with oranges, then you should at least try to enlighten me and others what the freaking fuck aid payments to Afghanistan from 1949 to 2019 have to do with the current military aid for Ukraine, taking especially into account that, as I've illustrated, what the US is spending right now on Ukraine is still peanuts in comparison to US military spendings in the past on morally way more dubious issues.
At what cost?
Will it be worth it all those dead people?
Seems like pride has more value than life.
I know it's not that simple and easy, but with each day I see news about more deaths and more weapons and everyone is cheering for it.
How many soldiers (doesn't matter which side) want to truly die for someone's else war?
Everyone is happy for each dead russian...
Now I would also prefer free Healthcare to spending billions on excess weapons in general, but this is probably the worst time possible to make the argument as in NOT doing that we stopped one of the biggest American threats on the geopolitical stage, castrated them politically, and likely sent their country back 20+ years economically, all without a single active American soldier losing their life.
And?
The situation in Afghanistan was completely different politically.
In fact, the money the US spent in Afghanistan then via CIA covert operations went almost directly to warlords in contact with various Taliban.
In contrast, Ukraine is a modern European country and the Baltics would be next in line if it falls - the Russian invasion is a direct threat to neighboring NATO countries.