Never understood the hate for calculus, math in general, physics or chemistry.
Somehow I always understood that.
Languages on the other hand.. shudders.
I’m literally an addiction psychologist.
I know addiction is far more complicated than saying “it’s a choice” but it’s also not a part of the person.
It is changeable.
Being gay isn’t.
No matter how much gay sex I don’t have, I’m still gay.
Objective morality means morality is true independent of human feeling and society (paraphrased source: oxford dictionary).
I fail to see how either imperativism or utilitarianism.
Taking just Utilitarianism.... is defined as maximizing pleasure over pain.
Which by definition is human feeling and interpretation of said pleasure or pain.
Aka subjective.
They cannot get married in the church.
If they engage in sex acts outside of marriage, that's a sin that needs to be confessed--just as when a Catholicly married wife gives her husband a handjob/blowjob they'd both need to confess the sin.
They (homosexuals) should go through the sacraments available to them (there are 7 total, good Catholics go through 6 -- marriage/holy orders being two separate that are usually exclusionary of each other) just 5 is acceptable.
It is not that simple.
I agree, this is a laughable position.
Let me explain with some thoughts.
Say you agree that driving cars 'hurts more ppl' than walking.
Are you going to forgo your right to drive a car because it could hurt someone?
And likely driving a car is factually more potentially harmful than walking.
So I better see you walking everywhere... Obviously this isn't a position you live by.
Another potential issue is self harm, do you let ppl jump off a building or do hard drugs?
They harm themselves but not others, is that anyone?
1) self harm is harming someone, the person himself.
So your rule isn't "don't harm anyone", it's "don't harm others".
But fine, I'll drop this point.
Homosexual sex acts are classified as a sin--not because they are homosexual, but because they cannot create children and thus are sodomy (anything that's not a penis going into its married vagina is sodomy under Catholicism).
It's the same sin when heterosexual couples do the same or parallel/comparable sex acts.
Which again is why homosexuality is not a sin.
It's a tendency towards sin, but being human is a tendency towards sin.
Sins can be forgiven.
That's like the whole point of Christianity.