If I had to make an educated guess, I suspect North Korea might be undergoing food shortages or a COVID explosion.
This is the impetus for provocation to raise nationalism and quieten unrest.
Basically it's a ruse to make North Koreans panic at external threat and endure domestic problems.
And possibly extract concessions from the West to chill out.
NK propaganda?!
The US military will tell you themselves that their artillery is nothing to be scoffed at.
Have you been to Seoul?
They even tell you on the tour at the dmz that there are still caves that haven’t been found yet.
The American military isn’t superman.
3.
COVID.
NK has almost no access to western vaccines, which means no mRNA vaccine until China develops one.
And China will give it to Chinese citizens first, so it's a while off.
I suspect that NK is now dealing with the highly infectious Omicron sub-variants which a zero-COVID policy cannot defend against.
And it's killing farmers.
Which was a response to a NK exercise, which was a response to a SK exercise, which was a response to a NK exercise, which was a response to a SK exercise, which was a response to a NK exercise, which was a response to a SK exercise, which was a response to a NK exercise, which was a response to a SK exercise, which was a response to a NK exercise, which was a response to a SK exercise, which was a response to a NK exercise.
Okay, and?
Before anyone accuses me of idle speculation, the situation in NK is very hard to determine outright due to how insular it is, lack of government statistics and transparency, lack of foreign news correspondents, and sanctions, meaning that speculation is all we got most of the time.
No.
Vigilant Storm is a long-planned exercise.
It's the successor of Vigilant Ace which used to be held annually until 2018 when Trump axed the exercises calling them too expensive and too provocative towards North Korea.
1.
Global fertilizer shortages.
Ukraine and Russia are the top exporters of fertilizer, and the war has disrupted this supply.
Those who are ignoring sanctions are selling fertilizer to rich countries.
This makes the price of fertilizer incredibly high, a ruinous situation for poor nations in general (I'm serious, lots of poor countries are FUCKED) which includes NK.