In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Exactly!
Certainly it's a long time coming, but let's not shoot ourselves in the foot with all the negativity.
Let's push for them to do the right thing, and don't let them build in loopholes or small fines that take the teeth out of it.
This is a good thing.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Factually incorrect.
These are the top 10 stock trading profits in descending order.
For 2021 (derp).
4 of the top 5 are Republicans and 7 of the top 10.
It's the same thing with the capitalism/plutocracy/corporatocracy/kleptocracy-based legal, political, and economic system we have now, which evolved out of the slavery and colonialism-based system it was founded upon.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Accordingly, our ruling capitalist/oligarch/plutocrat/kleptocrat class can get away with crimes against humanity daily, because our legal, economic, and political systems don't recognize social murder, kleptocracy, or extreme wealth hoarding as the de facto crimes that they are.
The public doesn't even have "standing" for the crimes of the owners, due to not having an "injury in fact" from being enslaved and socially murdered by kleptocrats in the eyes of the legal, political, or economic system, just as slaves didn't have standing to sue their masters, while slaves fighting back or running away was harshly punished.
We used to have a slavery and colonialism-based legal, social, and economic order that didn't recognize slavery as a crime, and so the slave-owner class got away with crimes against humanity, the effects of which we still experience to this day.