In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I'm not.
Most women voted against democrats.
It undercuts what Hillary said.
Just so happens "most women" are white.
A majority of women voted against democrats.
That doesn't discount minorities in the slightest.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Yeah, neither did anybody else for that matter, the mainstream media dedicated more air time to negative stories about Clinton than any other candidate, they dedicated less air time to covering her policy than any other candidate, she had to carry around all the nonsense baggage from the primary about her nomination being "rigged" and how "as a neoliberal capitalist" she was as much "a part of the problem" as the Republicans, and then the cherry on top was James Comey making the historically unprecedented choice to hold a public press conference to discuss an on going FBI investigation about Clinton the week before the election.
100%.
She even promoted him during the Republican primary because she thought he’d be the easiest to beat.
Backfired on her and the whole country is worse off because of it.
Absolutely reckless.
Fair enough.
Dems did lose support overall though with women compared to last election.
I misread the graph.
But yes, you did point out the weakness of my argument.
In practical terms Medicare for All wouldn't just be the biggest healthcare bill in American history, it would also require the largest tax increase in American history to pay for it, which means President Bernie Sanders would have needed to find 218 Representatives and 60 Senators to raise taxes on their voters in order for the federal government to replace their voters' healthcare with a government plan.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
In 2009 President Obama and the Democratic party passed the largest expansion of public healthcare coverage since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid, since its passage it's estimated to have saved tens of thousands of lives and trillions of dollars for American taxpayers, in 2010 Republicans won the House of Representatives in the largest landslide victory in their party's history.