I'm surprised they couldn't have just...I dunno... used any of the other terminals at JFK for a hot second?
It was only Terminal 1 that was closed.
T4, T5, T7, T8, I think 4&5 Def have customs and immigration.
No code share partners willing to lend them a hand?
Basically, all the normal complications you get from a diversion airport (landing at an airport that isn't expecting you, which may or may not have a gate ready for you, and which may have to scramble to find an open departure slot for you to take off again), plus having to worry about when the crew that flew there can fly the plane home - it's not terribly likely Air New Zealand has a ton of standby crews in the States, so taking into account mandatory rest periods and duty hour limits, it's certainly not going to be as easy as 'land, refuel, turn around and come home.'
Sure, you can have a relief crew fly in (as passengers) from somewhere else, but how long does that take?
If they're coming from home base, we know it's at least 16 hours!
Even if all of that only adds up to 24 hours, you now need to figure out what to do with your plane, crew, and passengers for that amount of time.
All of that adds up to massive headache and expense, and that's assuming it's just one day.
If I had to guess, I'd say it really boils down to the cost - even under normal circumstances, airlines don't look at a clock measuring minutes and hours but dollars and cents.
I mean, if it (somehow) wouldn't cost them anything to let the plane continue on to an alternate, even if it meant a delay, I'm sure Air New Zealand would have done so.
There was a simple calculation made- 'is it going to cost more to keep them going or bring them back?
'.
The 787-9 has a fuel capacity of 36,000 gallons for a 16 hour flight the aircraft would use virtually every drop of that @$3.50/gal that's $126,000 in fuel cost plus the cost of four pilots and 7 additional crew members not to mention the cost of the lease for the aircraft, maintenance, wear and tear, meal service, ground handling, compensation to the passengers, insurance, etc.
That all adds up to a lot of money.
Not necessarily bullshit.
Having the plane in another country for a few days unexpectedly could absolutely be worse than having the plane back at it's home base where it can be rescheduled.
My guess is likely due to costs; if it landed in the US, it wouldn't be likely to be able to come back full - that's a massive expense to fly it all the way back across the Pacific to New Zealand empty (after having also spent the money to have it finish the flight to NY).
Much less expensive to just eat the cost of the fuel you've already got onboard, turn it around, re-book the passengers, and let the aircraft take it's next scheduled flight out.