this proactive crossing the center straight line activity happens soooo many times regularly or even daily basis, I think the majority of Chinese and Taiwanese people are really immune to it, unless something much more severe happens like actions when Pelosi landed, compared to westurn audiences who are not exposed to these news much, who think this is a very big deal and war signal.
Lol.
If the west didn’t “allow” China in, the west would’ve suffered economically and China would’ve formed their own trade bloc.
But sure, make it sound like an act of charity from the west.
The KMT were mainly supported for fighting Japanese and communists, which you strangely left out.
The US even supported Apartheid South Africa in fighting communism when it threatened to spread to Southern Africa.
Ideology, repressive regimes ,tyrants….it all didn’t matter as long as your enemy was their enemy.
Seriously.
COVID is tearing their country apart.
There's discord in the country.
Economy is started to get much worse.
People had started to rebel and had a slight uprising.
This leads to decreased morale from citizens and inefficient soldiers.
Threats won't work, beatings won't work, their social credit system is leading to inequality within the middle class and their employment rates are tanked.
What you see from their media is obviously not what is happening there.
Poverty stricken areas are only going to get worse.
Like Russia.
All bark, no bite.
It also, helped create massive industrial infrastructure, communications, and developed the educational system.
Since when has the US been worried about Taiwan?
The US supported the KMT in China, the US supported the KMT when they fled to Taiwan, the US supported the KMT when they brutally ruled on the island resulting in the deaths of tens of thousands of Taiwanese, even going so far as to call Taiwan ‘Free China’.
The reason the US supported the KMT was because the KMT believed they would re-enter China in some ruling capacity and the US assumed they would too, and wanted the influence to shape China events that went with that.
Was only after realizing the KMT wasn’t going to return as they hoped that the US dug into their armory and found the democracy and human rights flags and knowing it would irk China, started waving them furiously hoping to start a conflict with a still then much weaker China.
That never happened and now plan C has seemingly commenced with the US increasingly selling Taiwan easily replaced weapons as well as encouraging them to export their technological prowess.
Europe also catching on and wanting a piece of the pie.
The US has a lot to answer for to the Taiwanese people.
And if a conflict started and China was weakened, REGARDLESS of whether Taiwan was decimated or not, American troops would return home heros.
Taiwanese welfare is not Americas priority, and never has been.
Weakening China, their perceived geopolitical enemy, is, and always has been, Americas priority which is also why the US demonizes China at every possible opportunity, regardless of what China does.