As you mentioned it was a veterans affairs worker that mentioned MAId.
This has nothing to do with the program.
This was terrible and shouldn’t have happened but doesn’t reflect on the Maid program.
The person would have never even qualified for MAId.
As someone who has experience with the program (my father used it to end his life), I have zero concerns with this program being used for anyone other that those who desperately need it.
It is quite a process, even tho my father was terminally ill he had to go through quite the process to be approved.
He had to do a phone interview, a one hour conversation with a nurse that came to his home and talked with him privately and then with the family to make sure there were no conflicts of interest or concerns.
Then a MAId Dr who had to drive several hours to see my dad, spoke with him for over an hour privately, went through his medical records to make sure their were no other options that could be explored and that my dad was aware and capable of making this decision.
We then had to get a document witnessed by someone other than a family member who signed off that my dad was requesting Maid and that they had no concerns.
Only then was he qualified.
The process was several days long.
It was rushed for my dads behalf because he was so near to the end and suffering.
For most people it takes longer.
Even then the MAId team did all their diligence.
He was then able to book a day and time to end his life.
It was not done the day of approval.
Also something I think a lot of people that havent experienced MAId first hand don’t realize is, MAid is handled by a special team.
This isn’t done by regular drs and nurses.
This team of people that do this are the most wonderful, caring people that I have come across in the medical system.
I honestly can’t thank them enough for the empathy and sensitivity they showed our family.
I am sharing this hoping to show the facts of Maid as most people do not have any experience with it.
Its still very seldom used in Canada.
There are inevitably going to be people trying to get rid of unwanted family members by declaring them terminally ill and pushing them into assisted dying (especially elderly people or people with otherwise impaired mental facilities who can be given papers to sign that they won't fully understand).
I agree 100%.
I work in healthcare and have never understood why we keep some people alive.
We spend lots of money and manpower to make people suffer longer...