In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Seriously.
They are trying to get the word “homophobic” exempted from being considered hate speech as the current interpretation (e.g., hateful), according to them, infringes on their religious convictions.
That’s right; they want to be free to incite hatred against a minority group, who it should be noted, are fellow Americans.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
"Pro rural" except when it comes to primarily supporting wealthy urban elites, multinational media conglomerates, devastation of rural infrastructure and economies, development of rural educational infrastructure...
Um.
I'm a mom to a tween, in a different state but my blood is boiling at the sheer violation of personal liberty and freedom and autonomy by the state of Tennessee.
Could someone tell me what I can do to help?
I feel like yelling at people over the phone, where can I find phone numbers for the lawfuckers that are responsible for this atrocity?
These kids have rights, it doesn't matter if something makes them uncomfortable or if it goes against their personal beliefs.
Rights are rights.
"Fiscally responsible" except in the case of subsidies to unsustainable industries, ignoring climate change's economic impact, funding for programs to alleviate costs for raising families, investing in education to compete in a global economy, debt ceiling negotiations...
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
"Pro rule of law" except in the case of wealthy conservative sex offenders, tax fraud/dodgers, voter fraud, espionage, treason, political violence, environmental laws, democratic processes, police violence, abuse of the legal/appeals system, violating established legal precedent, insurrections...