The past couple of days were all very quiet, with no missile or drone strikes.
The air raid alerts continued to trigger all the time as usual, but they were either mostly uneventful, or Belgorod oblast was shelled during them.
Very often air raid alert triggers when there are artillery duels happening close to the border, even though we have a specific artillery strike warning it’s barely being used recently.
Yes.
Winning a war typically has more to do about production and logistics than sheer manpower.
As Russia is proving, manpower is a thing that countries can typically paper over in the short-term.
But running out of men is rarely the primary reason a war is lost.
Definitely true.
The absolute majority (80% or more) are in full support not only of the war, but of full-blown genocide.
Scratch any russian with a basic question of "Should Ukraine and Ukrainian people exist at all?"
and you'll see them for the nazis that they are.
Putin interrupted Manturov’s explanation that the ministry had already drafted orders for civil and military industries, leading Manturov to admit that Russia had not issued a portion of documents for aircraft manufactures that would approve state funding for their projects.
Vladimir Putin publicly criticized Deputy Prime Minister Denis Manturov for aviation companies not receiving state orders during a cabinet of ministers meeting on Jan. 11.
I have zero sympathy for the decades of hardships that are coming their way.
They've made their bed, now it's time to lay in it.
But Russia is stereotypically stuck in their past, WWII in particular, where there is an example of this This is nearly always the case with this country's elites and 'intelligentsia', obsessed with their 'glory days' It is hard to understand Russian culture and ways of thinking until you realize how obsessed they are to looking backwards and inwards on themselves for answers.
🥊 Sec.
Council Head is attacking Kadyrov (Chechens); Prigozhin (Wagner) is opposing Girasimov (reg.
army); Shoigu has few allies; FSB vs GRU.