Some of my PhD research was on the effects of sea level rise on groundwater resources in those nations.
They're not just going to lose their land.
They're going to lose their water before that.
And it's going to be a big fucking problem.
The world's wealthy countries need to decide whether it's going to be a "spend some money now" type of big fucking problem or a "sudden massive waves of people who literally don't have anywhere to go" type of big fucking problem.
Blatant misinformation.
Agriculture accounts for according to the epa and even less for Canada.
There’s plenty of ways to cut the other 89% down without touching agriculture.
Remember?
Most Indians use public transport.
Bicycles are common.
A lot of "shared" vehicles exist.
The idea of a car is novel and a large chunk of India's electricity is renewable (India's the third largest producer of renewable energy but that's fair.
India's the second largest population...).
The rail network is excellent if a tad slow.
Buses are everywhere.
I mean I like it and I wish, but as an Indian I don't see why everyone sees India as some massive economic country from people before claiming that India was trying to hide under the term "developing", I mean look I wish India was developed haha but it's just not, in the same way India isn't going to surpass USAs total fossil fuels ever in a few years unless you mean "decades".
For the record?
Qatar's one of the highest carbon footprints on the planet.
Indonesia's one of the lowest.
2 tonnes per person.
POV: average r/worldnews user commenting on Indo-Russian relations, look I understand that maybe your country only extracts economic benefit from other countries so it might be hard to understand the true brotherhood of Russia💓India.
Not really.
The atoll and coral island communities in question are far from wealthy: many of the nations of Oceania have lower than $5,000 GDP per capita, and several of those countries are poorer than the likes of Uganda.
Their groundwater also occurs as fragile and transient freshwater lenses, and even if they could afford tidal barriers and desalination plants, hydraulic pressure from rising seas would displace the freshwater in those lenses and eventually percolate through to the land surface.
Desalination plants also necessarily create hypersaline waste that devastates the marine ecosystems that many of these countries' small economies rely on.
What?
You just said India hides under the disguise of developing countries and now you're saying Indians are claiming to be a developed country.
Which one is it?
You’re under some delusion that if the US stopped exporting crops their emissions per capita would match China but that can only be true if >50% of emissions was from agriculture because our emissions are 2x higher per capita.
Of course.
However if the world had India or Indonesia's per capita pollution?
They would smash the Paris Agreement sine it would effectively be a GREATER than 50% reduction.
India is looking at reducing the population.
It's in fact approaching the point that the population will fall but short of India just "killing people" there's nothing it can do right now since it's carbon footprint is very small.
It's more than 50% smaller than the global average.