Lawmaker David Arakhamia, Ukraine's chief negotiator with Russia, said Kyiv is ready to provide Russia with security guarantees after it withdraws troops from Ukraine, pays reparations, brings all war criminals to justice, and surrenders nuclear weapons.
Why?
I’ve got my theories, but they aren’t any better than anybody else’s theories.
It’s art.
It’s open to interpretation.
But it’s not an accident.
⚡️ Sievierodonetsk entered the winter without heating and almost without electricity, with which the Russians provided the settlement episodically, said the head of the military-civilian administration of the city Oleksandr Stryuk.
3.
East/South East from Kherson towards Crimea.
Risky to move significant forces across the Dnieper, but given the poor defensive ground on the Left Bank, it does have potential.
Watch for bridging efforts.
They have less than 700 unarmed Kh-55s in stock, they shouldn't have any Kh-555s left and the number of Kh-101s is unknown (they were manufacturing them for 9 years, considering they were making around 250 engines for them per year and they should make around 700-900 of the nuke capable variant to utilize the cruise missile nuclear warheads, it would suggest they made around 2200 of both variants, 1300-1500 of which were Kh-101s).
I understood you.
What I’m saying is that Banksy is an artist at getting people worked up about art.
The ‘piece’ isn’t really the piece.
The people who are reacting to it are the piece.
Their reaction reveals themselves, and people revealing themselves isn’t always pretty.
As you have revealed yourself.
In your case, you look good.
Ukrainian hotline "I want to live" published a call evidencing that Russians are forcibly mobilising young Ukrainians in occupied Crimea.
Yes.
We know they got at least 62 thousand tonnes of artillery ammunition from Belarus and at least one train from N. Korea.
I have no reliable sources to confirm if irmt was more.
Up to 300 wounded Russian occupiers have been delivered to the Novopskov Territorial Medical Association of the temporarily occupied territory of the Luhansk region in recent days.
".