For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This is silly.
The Democrats are the minority without a compromise like this.
The question for them is this: is it better to be in the minority with a reasonable partner whom you can govern with or be in the minority and held to the whims of Marjorie Taylor Greene and her ilk?
Because if this continues and the Republicans have no other off-ramp, they will eventually cave to the far right and concede to someone like Jim Jordan as Speaker.
But there is no scenario in which Republicans, no matter how reasonable, from the majority, agree to a Dem speaker.
If the choice for them is an MTG backed candidate or a Dem, they are going to eventually cave to far right and pick the former.
If the choice is an MTG candidate or a more moderate Republican who will govern reasonably, not pursue frivolous investigations, and work across the aisle with the Senate leadership, you can probably pick enough to get the latter.
This is silly.
The democrats are in the minority either way.
But if the speaker was a democrat and bills required republican support to pass, all bill would have to be bi partisan in nature.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
I get really really wanting to believe there are good Republicans out there and that compromise and shared humanity can win the day, and even I think eventually it will once the GOP has been completely destroyed politically and it's smoldering ashes are an example to all of the amoral hacks in this country why you don't cross certain lines, but until that happens moderates need to snap out of their fantasies and join the rest of us in the real world where the Republican party has been an existential threat to our country for decades (see; Nixon and Kissinger sabotaging LBJs peace talks in Vietnam, Watergate, Regan sabotaging Carter's hostage negotiations with Iran, Iran-Contra, Bush v Gore, lies about WMD in Iraq, Hurricane Katrina, etc.
).