That's also not mentioning of course just how much their remaining armed forces have atrophied since the fall of the USSR.
Had they come storming across the Fulda Gap they would have thrown everything at us including their air power.
All of which was much more impressive during the 80's.
Conscription solves Russia's problem of keeping the war meat grinder well fed (their seemingly _only_ truly reliable weapon) and at the same time unties its hands to do nearly what it wants with those those conscripted citizens turned soldiers (when you're a soldier you have far fewer rights than other citizens, hello "military service", a perk of being a male citizen in Russia), and the family being poor can't buy their son(s) off or amass any legal (or literal, for that matter) defence, also when state tells them they know not how their son died or where (so they can save on war expenses).
Russia thus culls its weak while leaving more fortunate/smarter/richer/closer to Kremlin to continue insulate and support the state where the top can keep the cash flow coming in.
I mean what would a King do without his lords with fancy titles recruiting or enslaving peasants into a system where said lords levy everyone and collect taxes to send wealth upwards the pyramid, ending up at the Kings treasury?
The King can't do these things alone.
In 1990 they had about 8000 aircraft, now they have about 4000 and a significant chunk of those will still be Soviet era planes lacking modern upgrades (same with their tanks which are lacking night sights etc), see the reports of pilots with commercial GPS systems taped to the dash etc.
No.
In the years from 1943 to 1983 we went from zero nuclear weapons to ca.
70,000; jet engines and radar for military and commercial planes became standard, rockets and missiles went from barely existing to ICBMs and fire-and-forget missiles.
We went from electronic tubes and a handful computers worldwide to ICs/microchips, enabling computers everywhere.
We went from zero spaceflight to satellites (communications, weather, reconnaissance etc.)
being taken for granted.
The only problem is probably some snowball effect -- you cull enough of the "weak", suddenly some industries start collapsing (which tends to have the domino effect) because, believe it or not, not everyone can be an IT-specialist or a well paid Kremlin troll or a hacker on their payroll, or a financier or a bank CEO or some such -- foods and goods need to be harvested and produced by someone, and someone needs to transport it the shelves consumed by the elite etc.
It's regular folks that feed the nation, by and large, like those Putin conscripts from; there's totally a critical interdependence between classes in a society, for better or worse.
In Russia, which we have known to be "endemically" corrupt (multiple generations now; take it from me who lived there and experienced it first hand), conscription is by and large done from impoverished families (they need money they can get from their sons being conscripted) and places far enough removed from where the weight of conscription can avalanche into criticism of Putin/Kremlin, like Moscow or St. Petersburg (more educated people, fewer buying into Kremlin BS; although by some adage I can't recall, there are disproportionately many from that very group).
Plus the poor tend to have less education and are thus more pliable by the well tuned Russian propaganda machine, so if it isn't money they're foaming at the mouth they will send their flesh and blood to "defend the nation against those Nazi in Ukraine".
Not many things have helped Putin as much as invention of television, soon in 4K.