In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Haha.
They'll be like 'wow, no, we didnt mean it like this.
We dont actually have any questions.
That is cheating You are supposed to ignore us now so we can overload right-wing media with conspiracy bullshit.
Thats unfair'.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Agreed completely.
But you know what, even though the withdrawal from Afghanistan was chaotic or whatever, I'm still glad Biden did it.
I'm glad we're no longer pouring people and money into a problem we can't solve and never could.
All the dead Afghanis, dead soldiers and people with PTSD and lingering health problems are at least not having their numbers added to like they were when we were still fighting.
It's good that we're done with that interminable and pointless war.
They don't seem to understand the difference between seeking to hold a corrupt, lying, justice-obstructing, coup-facilitating narcissist accountable (who's lived a life evading accountability), and a fanatical fixation with a president's son (along with all the propaganda centered around him), who unlike the former president's family, isn't serving as an "advisor" or directly within the current president's administration as a result of nepotism while mired in conflicts of interest and fulfilling the underhanded, political and self serving schemes of daddy/father in law Trump, and in places like China, Russia and Saudi Arabia no less.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I mean, you have Trump, notorious for his corrupt business dealings, both domestic and foreign, his tax evasion, his lying about his wealth, his shady business partners, his own cozying up to foreign political leaders and dictators, and Republicans collectively turn a blind eye to it, no, they defend it, and at the same time they think Joe Biden's "family business dealings" are worth investigating?
Hunter Biden is the target of right wing outrage, conspiracies, ire and scorn, and it won't end until Republicans find irrefutable evidence of Joe Biden and his son fucking hookers, doing blow, sex trafficking minors together, while money laundering, bribing political leaders and wealthy elites, amassing fortunes together and cozying up with corrupt, globalist, deep state agents in their spare time.
Which is to say, they'll never stop.