There are pictures of that girl filming the IDF soldiers.
Just shows you that like others said - "witnesses" can lie.
Those are internationally recognized Ukrainian territories under occupation by a foreign power seeking to expand its territory.
Russia is not trying to defend itself from foreign adversaries, its actively trying to capture valuable Ukrainian lands unprovoked.
A.
It's not bright blue and from a distance (As seen in the video) it is very easy to see it as black.
Stupidity, being pressured by society to do something stupid, or even potentially send/volunteering to go out specifically in dangerous situations, doesn't discount how dangerous a situation is.
All of those, in a span of literally a week.
between 21st and 29th of March.
So Israel, seeing how the PA doesn't give a shit about those attacks and even encourages them, had to attack those terrorists back and capture those terrorists to defend its civilians.
Why shouldn't they be there, if there is a terrorists organization in that city that has done multiple bombings and terror attacks in Israel itself, and the IDF went there to keep the Israelis citizens safe?
Oh, and yeah - I'm talking about terror attacks inside Israel even according to your idea of what Israel is.
I'm talking about terror attacks in Tel Aviv, West Jerusalem (like the one from a few weeks ago), and many more cities and towns in Israel, with the many terror attacks inside Judea and Samaria.
Just to give you some background - it began on 31.3.22, due to 4 terror attacks that happened in Main cities inside Israel (and not in the "West Bank"!
), always against civilians unless cops arrived.
A stab attack in west side of Jerusalem, 1 killed and 1 injured.
A combined stab and running over terror attack in Be'er Sheba, 4 murdered, 2 injured.
A shootout at a road in Hadera, where 2 terrorists began shooting at civilian cars, injuring 5 civilians, until cops came, and 2 cops died.
And another terror attack in Bney Brak, an Ultra-Orthodox city where most don't even register to the Army, 4 civilians murdered and 1 cop.