USCENTCOM been busy bees the past couple of years after we left Afghanistan huh 🤔 .
God Bless!
There are some hard workers at the DoD .
Hard workers and efficient assassins lol.
1 operation alone could be a cool movie on how they rehearse their mission from emulating the terrain and buildings and everything all the way to the execution phase.
Definitely.
Just meant that $400k (maybe now $500k?)
is the life insurance that a service member in the US Armed Forces can receive when they die (or their beneficiaries will receive).
Different capabilities.
One of their roles is operating as trainers or in advisory capacity to assist in an insurgent or resistance movement.
So they have to not only know how to do things, but how to train people how to do things.
Completely agree.
Using Ukraine as an ever relevant example, they're not exactly hurting (relatively speaking) for funds.
So many countries have given so much items in monetary value as aid.
We can send them a squadron of multi-million dollar F-16s.
But without trained pilots to fly the aircraft, they're not much use to the Ukrainians.
And while we can train their pilots, they can only learn so quickly.
(Nothing against them, just that flying is difficult yo.
).
There’s a massive swamp and lake that is on the border of Iraq and Iran, and we learned that the Iranian Revolutionary Guard was smuggling weapons and IED-making material over the lake (yes, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, despite the US govt trying to deny it because they didn’t want to possibly be forced to go to war with Iran while simultaneously fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan…).
Oh jeez.
That could get real complicated to calculate.
Not even looking at the actual numbers, the additional costs that come to mind for that would be things like parachutes, the skill/training of parachute riggers and instructors, the extra time in training (food, supplies, etc) for the students in airborne school, the flight time of the C-17/C-130/whatever aircraft they're jumping out of, maintenance of ranges capable of supporting parachute operations, to name a few...
Those guys were cool, though.
When they had down time and were bored they would show us how to pick locks, how to rig up miniature explosives for like taking out a door’s deadbolt, show us CQB tips/tricks, and would even just bring us a case of grenades while we were in the tower and be like, “We have too many… I already cleared it with your Platoon Sergeant, you’re good to just chuck these into the swamp…” It was pretty awesome.