Ok. but it has to be unanimous for the countries to be able to work together cohesively.
If you have countries that don't want another country, it could lead to all kinds of adversarial issues.
And, that cannot happen within NATO, ever.
Several hoax news and so-called "pink slime" outlets—media sources with dubious or unknown funding, poor quality or automated copywriting and content pushing a political agenda—have in recent days shared the story without proper sourcing, raising additional doubts about its provenance and authenticity.
It's not ideal.
But it's not like all $782bn is being wasted.
A huge amount of that money is going into people's pockets.
I don't know if it was Rocky's speech to the Russian people in Rocky IV, or the prowess of the military industrial complex on show in Commando that did it, but the '80s was joyous examination of an entire decade of America besting Russia in the Cold War in film that ended up describing the conflict that we have now, 40 years later, and the cultural supremacy of '80s action movies played a part in that, setting the winning mindset of an entire generation primed for defeating evil Russians.
I see.
I did a quick research and Newsweek did fact check concerning the allegation.
Their conclusion: Misleading Material.
And if the US needed to rely on it's allies, I'd honestly be a little grateful.
We're in these alliances to help the US as much as the US is in it to help us.
It's nice to feel needed.
While that in itself does not offer definitive proof that Zelenska had not spent money in French shops during her visit, there is no evidence to suggest that she has, and a number of misleading elements around the dissemination of this narrative further undermine its credibility.
They have submitted.
28 out of 30 nations have voted to enlarge their membership to include them.
It appears 2 countries stand in the way.
Here are the details.
All those America rah-rah action movies of the '80s were not about fake enthusiasm about the Cold War -- 80's American action movies had it right: all the kids should have been having a great time as all the weapons made in that decade were -- just like the movies -- way better than what the Russians were making and we're kicking Russia's butt before they were even used.
tl:dr The happiness of the '80s action movies had it right: depicting the good guys beating the bad guys in the Cold War was actually celebrating the victory of capitalism vs the Russian crime empire conflict that would come 4 decades later.