If the world is “fatigued” by some modern hitler starting his very inept campaign and wats to just let him because they “have enough” then this world deserves it, and everything that will come out of this kind of signal we send by this in the future from different fucking bastard individuals and autocratic regimes in the world.
Because some privileged, spoilt part of the world is “fatigued”.
We deserve to die.
Idk, maybe at the collapse of the Soviet Union we didn't increase the size and expansion of NATO, reasonably dealt with the corruption of the 2014 Ukrainians coup that ultimately lead to the allegations from Trump in the 2020 elections, circumventing all this war-hawk talk and 18+ billion in aid through diplomacy.
But instead we doubled down on our global "one super power/global police", increased our military budget and expansion (meddling) focused into destabilizing the region (Syria, Ukraine, Libya, Turkey, Afghanistan, etc) and paved the way to only lead to war.
Nice try, really.
Maybe russians could go home, start paying for the rebuild, maybe the Ukrainans could join the Nato, and maybe, russians can go bankrupt and fall apart into smaller countries.
Maybe.
It would be important if Europe held on with this war effort that Ukraine is sacrificially fighting for our interest, but particulary that our on-duty saviour, daughter-turned-parent: the USA holds this line and that trumpist republicans do not turn the policy around.
Any outcome that would give Putin’s Russia any territory is a reward for the regime, a prolongation of the threat from Russia to the West - European Union, immediate russian neughbourhood that has aspirations to join the democratic world.
This failure (in cost of life and resources) has radicalised Russian public even more and any victory they could take out of this would only worsen their mentality towards dangerous in future.
The only way is defeating them so they realise they were fcuked by their leader.
Their mentality will remain problematic but theere will be a possibility of self-reflection and preocupation with problems within the federation that would have to be resolved would kerp Russia out of our hair.
Like the US led strategy (after complete EU, then ECC, failure to address balkan wars) did with Serbian regime.