r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Additionally and importantly, combine not actually owning shares with something called (and, subsequently, something called a Failure to Deliver) and through the aforementioned loopholes and lobbying -- it's truly not an exaggeration to say that there's a network of drunk, coked out Wall Street psychopaths determining the value of much of the larger stock market as well individual companies - all the while skimming off the top billions and billions of dollars that should be going to the middle and lower classes.
I work as a muni union firefighter.
I was explaining to my officer yesterday that there is literally no language about taxes going up.
I told him everything about that comes from a libertarian super PAC.
I even linked him the entire amendment which is like two paragraphs long.
His first comeback was oh that's not the whole thing.
So I show him the official Illinois legislation website.
"Bro it's literally two paragraphs".
Then he says well yeah but you have to find the bill it's attached to that has all the hidden stuff..."this isn't a bill...
It's an amendment.
This is it.
The whole thing we're voting on".
Then goes on to talk about lawyers explaining it's going to raise taxes.
I tell him that's one group saying if x happens then x will happen causing x and then x will be the result.
It's a complete straw man argument.
Then he proceeds to link the Illinoispolicy .
Org article where that originated to tell me to read it.
Like dude this is exactly what we just talked about.
This all happened post election so I know how all conservatives voted on it.
End rant.
Furthermore and more importantly, those shares are are, very, very, very, very likely, being used against you in convoluted derivative schemes (similar to 2008 Housing Derivative Meltdown; same deal, different financial instruments) andor actual non-delivery and ownership of shares made possible through Wall Street loopholes and lobbying.
Can we get this nationwide?
Tennessee is an autocracy and will never allow us to vote for this.
Who set our government up in new ways to prevent something like this from coming to the ballot and to prevent anyone who’s not a Republican from getting elected.