It’s a mixture of the army getting sick because the army is not “really” vaccinated.
They received the Chinese vaccine but it’s been proven to be almost non-effective against omicron and that omicron going through the populace, greatly messes up the economic abilities that China has even though they probably could take Taiwan with everything they have now within a couple hours they know that if this did become a war, they would be at a major disadvantage.
Now I must say I don’t know this next part first hand, I work for a company that handles a lot of infectious disease study, and I work in one of the departments that’s researches Covid (it’s not our main focus anymore, but we still do research on it), but not one that deals with China directly.
However, we have branches in China and I have friends at those branches and they’re all telling me the same thing.
This Omicron variant is smacking China right now and it’s only gonna get worse.
I don’t know if you remember back in the beginning of Covid where they were like rumors that China would execute people in their apartments and stuff for trying to talk about Covid as well as other shady things like that and they’ve just been telling me that that’s been happening more and more again but it’s just not getting out there because either the war or the fact that information just has a tough time getting out of China unless the entire world focuses on it like it was at the beginning of covid.
The best number I can find for fatalities is about 1.2% of all cases.
So 31,000 cases translates to about 350 deaths.
Eh not really, China in the recent years has really made a strong push for Taiwan and now the fact that the US is starting to bring all the computer chip companies back into the US as well and the fact that Taiwan produces a very very high number of computer chips makes it even more desirable with all the companies leaving China.
On top of that recent US activity in Taiwan like Pelosi’s trip put China very on edge with how close Taiwan in the US are becoming and already are.
Plus they’re due for an economic collapse soon so they want to try and claim the country before then otherwise they’re going to have to wait almost a decade to try again.
For them realistically it would be best to try and take that whilst everybody is still focused on Russia however, with this new variant, it seems less likely that China is gonna make any type of moves and end up losing the small window that the Russians have provided.
Of course, nothings been guaranteed publicly and most of the people at the top will say that China isn’t planning to do anything rn.
However, if you look at memos from the department of defense, you can see they’re getting pretty antsy when it comes to how Xi talks as he’s has been saying a lot of “we will go for it” and stuff like that.
Tho it’s still very unlikely it’s something that the US is still look at.