I mean if you want to get really technical, "the sky" and "blue" are both defined through human observation and interpretations of the world.
"Blue" does not exist absolutely.
It's a human concept.
Likewise "the sky" is another human concept.
There's no sky, just a bunch of gas between us and space.
If the gas didn't scatter incoming light, we wouldn't see it and it probably wouldn't be defined as a "tangible" thing in our minds.
So "sky" needs the scattering to exist, and the scattering is short-wavelenh light, or blue to us.
So the sky is basically blue by human definition.
Similarly "wetness" is a human concept too.
There is no physical property of wetness.
Just means to have some water on it.
If water is not wet, then it is dry.
And dry things can be covered in water to become wet.
So water covered with water is wet by definition.
But we've assumed in the beginning that water is not wet.
So clearly there's no logic.
Just a human concept.
Actually, the first claim of one Abrahamic religion's superiority to another is still an ongoing battle, and it continues even to this day and is somewhat relevant to a (relatively) newish hostile relationship between Jews and Arabs in the middle east today versus centuries of relative co-existence... that of the Samaritans vs. the Hebrews.
Thousands upon thousands of years of hostility with no real end in sight, if the world ever saw a true "religious" war, that was and continues to be it.
All the other pretend religious wars are really about resources and territory in some form or fashion, those two camps are purely divided along theological lines that boil down to the most minute differences that most.people would deem inconsequential (most normal people, anyways.
).
Christianity and Islam have actually coexisted very well for most of history.
The "war between Christianity and Islam" is more of a very late 20th century thing.
Yes, there were the crusades, but that was more of an isolated series of events (remember that the 4th one also just focused on plundering Christian East Rome).
Islam was for most of history considered a Christian heresy by Christians, and Muslims have always accepted Christians as worshippers of the same god.