I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
He's the perfect encapsulation of American politics.
A conman who uses buzzwords relating to his race and sexuality (to appeal to the media) and his economic conservatism (to appeal to wealthy donors) to distract from the fact that he has zero qualifications.
Nah.
Even though it’s a token gesture, they need him as the poster boy to show the new generation of the republican party that they are tolerant of that lifestyle.
Very much like when people are called out for being a racist and their first response is "but I have a black friend, so I can't be racist".
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Conservatives (anyone who would vote for any of the current Republican politicians) have no standards.They're voting for team force-our-mental-limitations-on-everyone-else(fascism).
Selfishness in all facets is their defining characteristic.
They don't even think about it because it's clear who the bad guys are: anyone who exposes them to the terror of a reality that is incongruous with their programmed beliefs.
When all your stated goals are nefarious because ignoring reality has nefarious results, underhanded and malevolent representatives who will cheat are preferrable.
They have no problem lying, voting for pedophiles, con artists, foreign assets, religious whackjobs, and anyone else who will superficially tell them that they are right to be bad people.
Almost half of people apparently have a psyche like this, because there's no excuse for a good person to vote conservative, especially after all the fraud, crime, treason and insurrection.
People who can mentally equivocate the crimes of the Republicans to Hunter Biden's laptop are delusional at best, if not criminally insane.
People who want conservative governance are flat out bad people.
I can't fathom what goes through the mind of an "independent" that finds fascism appealing enough to have any question about picking a side.
An independent must be just a Republican without the courage to admit it.