It’s a little weird for me, a girl who is female, but hey - if it makes someone feel better about who they are, I’m all for it.
I have absolutely no problems calling a person what they want to be called.
It’s a lot like arguing that a person named ‘William’ shouldn’t be called ‘Bill’ - that person feels more comfortable as a Bill and associates with the name Bill, so yes, we call them Bill.
Gender identity is individually determined.
There should be no laws defining gender identity.
Just let every individual identify as they see fit.
It shouldn't be for governments to define an individual's identity.
Why are authorities always trying to label us & put us into boxes that makes them feel comfortable?
This should be a non-issue and every human beings right to privacy as to how they identify is paramount.
Absolutely.
I find they are a; “have its cake and eat it too “ society.
Specifically, I think it’s absolutely absurd they can allow non-perm residents to compete for them at the national level.
As a sports fan this has bothered me for years.
\-Intersex people cannot be clearly categorized into male/female on the basis of biological characteristics.
Thank you for your insight.
As a cis person with loved ones who are gay and trans, I am always working on understanding more.
I agree with you, the ‘feels like’ is a really poor way to describe it but it felt appropriate for a person who is honestly trying to learn and has no familiarity with the concept.
I certainly don’t want to diminish you by saying it like that and I apologize if I did.
I personally consider a transwoman as a woman (and thus fitting in the ‘binary gender’ theory) - I’m just trying to help this person get a glimpse why gender is not strictly binary in an ELI5 way.
❤️.
The argument is specifically addressing a popular argument that says that gender and sex are the exact same thing such that an exhaustive accounting of the characteristics of biological sex will also describe all the meaningful characteristics of gender.
The existence of intersex people is a powerful counterexample to this kind of biological reduction, because they exhibit physical characteristics that cannot easily be mapped onto this reductive binary.