Right, unfortunately life isn’t fair.
I don’t want to give any more arms or money to Ukraine.
I don’t want to get nuked because of Ukraine.
Ukraine pretty much started it by committing crimes against Russian speaking people.
It’s messy both sides are at fault.
Why would Russia let Ukraine on its border join NATO.
That is a violation on the Minsk agreement by the west and one of Russias red lines.
Hence the situation we are in.
Ukraine will be losing land it’s just a matter of how much will be left.
If Russia takes all of Ukraine.
The next one would be a nato county and I am willing to see what happens.
You can’t say the west didn’t do some provoking.
Well here we are.
Nato and the west broke a lot of agreements made and the current Russia is not the old USSR.
Russia tried to join NATO a few times and they wouldn’t let them.
Christianity is exploding in Russia and the west is mad they overthrew their control gained during the Bolshevik Revolution.
Also, I don’t think there is any government worth fighting for on the planet so yea.
I mean Putin is so bad they are making money hand over fist, Have a strong currency, and have Christian values.
They are so terrible.
My point is ever country has done really bad things and justified it.
I don’t think Russia is the demon everyone makes them out to.
Let’s talk.
Vietnam, Korea, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan.
I guess China can’t do any wrong.
A US Russia Alliance would basically control the world and support Christian values.
That’s what I would do.
Peace through strenh.
Since you are content to generalize everything and compare Iraq to Ukraine, it's clear you're too bitter to have a reasonable conversation about the difference between exploitation and actual defense of sovereignty.
Hi sayed_sameh.
Your submission from businessinsider.com is behind a metered paywall.
A allows users to view a specific number of articles before requiring paid subscription.
Articles posted to /r/worldnews should be accessible to everyone.
While your submission was not removed, it has been flaired and users are discouraged from upvoting it or commenting on it.
For more information see our .
Please try to find another source.
If there is no other news site reporting on the story, contact the moderators.