Wagner has already stated they have "millions" of Americans "volunteering" to fight in Ukraine.
Any American in Russia urgently needs to understand the implications of this propaganda.
LOL.
No.
the embassy does not help you get out unless you have a medical emergency and then you may qualify for a loan.
All the info in on the page and the page for the consulate in moscow.
Family can't come if they dont already have visas and visas have not been processed in russia since covid closed down those services.
all visas for russians are issued to them from us embassies in other countries, but there are no loans to go to a third country for your family members, only for repatriation of the citizen with medical need.
So basically families will just need to split up for some indeterminate, but assuredly long period of time until they can secure cash for travel to a 3rd country to get visas for family members.
People on here are so naieve.
I used to fly the jfk ny-moscow route which flew 2 times per day and every time the overwhelming majority of people on the plane were dual citizens with family in russia.
I'm talking like the whole plane unloads in NY and there's like 10 people max going through the immigration control and the rest have us passports.
It's not just a handful of people.
"Do not travel to Russia due to the unpredictable consequences of the unprovoked full-scale invasion of Ukraine by Russian military forces, the potential for harassment and the singling out of U.S. citizens for detention by Russian government security officials, the arbitrary enforcement of local law, limited flights into and out of Russia, the Embassy’s limited ability to assist U.S. citizens in Russia, and the possibility of terrorism.
U.S. citizens residing or travelling in Russia should depart immediately.
Exercise increased caution due to the risk of wrongful detentions."
- 13/FEB/2013.
The Wagner group doesn't need to do international recruitment after receiving 6 million applications from America.
I'm sorry, hon.
I wish there was something to say to make it any less bad.
There isn't.
Sending love your way.