Except the Ukrainians are not the invaders… these men literally lost family members and friends because of The Kremlin’s decision to invade… the only thing stopping them from straight up invading Russia is the west… I believe Ukrainian soldiers would absolutely slaughter as many Russians as it takes.
They know no pity for the people who literally destroyed their homes, their economy, their lives, the friends, their family, their peace.
Man… I think slaughtering Russians may leave them too bloodthirsty for after the war.
No matter how this war ends, Ukraine will be pissed.
So I see no pity coming from them towards any Pro-Russian feelings.
I know I wouldn’t give a damn if I was in their shoes.
And that’s exactly why I support them.
If Ukraine falls, what message does that send from us western men?
What message will it teach our sons?
That we allow dictators to invade important countries to the world economy?
I think not Ukraine isn’t an irrelevant country, their failure is our failure.
This isn’t like wars of the past where we were trying to forcible “help” other countries.
We are assisting a country and helping them protect themselves.
Yes we benefit greatly from the war, but we also did not want this to happen… The world economy is now damaged, more than it was before… and the only way out is moving forward and making the best decisions.
Russia must fall, what they have done is despicable and their refusal to admit defeat and have a graceful defeat is sickening.
I personally wouldn’t have minded if they took Ukraine within the first 2-3 months of the war, but clearly, the Ukrainian people are fighting with more fervor than the TALIBAN, who literal U.S soldiers have said, they are ferocious and will not back down.
The Ukrainian people as a whole do not want Russia and they are proving their resolve is absolute.
This world is cold, but we are not heartless, respect is given where it is due, and it would disrespectful to the honor of man , to not help Ukraine.
Unfortunately, not every.
My sister's husband, for example.
I can't even imagine what he's hoping for.
I guess I'd have to tie my arms to the chair in order not to kill myself with facepalms.