I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's not that gun advocates don't care about suicides, it's that things like assault weapon bans, registries, magazine capacity bans, concealed carry restrictions and universal background checks won't do anything to reduce suicides, so the only point in including suicides when talking about those proposals is to use them to drive up the numbers and promote an emotional response rather than a logical one.
Take over the supply chain?
Where did I say that?
I said he should be trying to help truckers.
I didn’t say take over all trucks?
Lol.
Perhaps one can question individual gun safety measures in terms of effectiveness in suicide prevention, but the overall availability of firearms does promote suicide in our society.
> Perhaps one can question individual gun safety measures in terms of effectiveness in suicide prevention, but the overall availability of firearms does promote suicide in our society.
Okay, and?
He is correct that Canada is currently in the process of banning and confiscating many types of rifles along with all handguns.
That fact is indisputable.
So the idea that Canadians can still own firearms is about like saying that Soviet Russia had freedom of the press because the state run propaganda was still allowed.
It was more of a glib comment pointing out that there isn't much difference between "Canadians can own guns" given the bans and confiscations in the last year and "freedom of the press still exists so long as some books aren't banned.
".
Well, yes.
Gun control supporters are trying to downplay the draconian gun laws that have come into effect in Canada in the last year or so because they don't want people to see the end game.
But that doesn't change the fact that Canada is a perfect example of why gun owners shouldn't give up any more ground.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !