In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Exactly.
Florida is the dry run and he’s done damage that would take decades to unwind while doing nothing about affordable housing/rent, Medicaid expansion, energy costs, food insecurity, home and auto insurance, property taxes, infrastructure (which received $18 billion from federal funds), to name a few.
Yes, in many ways I can.
So say Trump goes and marches to Congress like he wanted.
The prez is now leading a group of rioters into Congress.
Who is shooting the prez of the USA, like you envision?
What is the secret service doing?
Protecting the prez by shooting cops?
The real point of it was to delay the transfer of power.
Then riots start from all sides, martial law is declared, military is working for Trump under lawful orders of a sitting prez...
It's a mess.
He has plenty of time to: silently condone white supremacy and Nazis who are flocking to the state, fabricate and then resolve culture war issues (like Don’t Say Gay)and make believe “groomers”, arrest former prisoners for voter fraud even though the state issued them voter cards, eliminated two Black held congressional districts before the election through extreme gerrymandering, and kidnapped immigrants seeking asylum in Texas!
and flew them to New York for political points with the scumbag voters who agree with that, installed a lapdog as Surgeon General that ignores everything Covid and promotes treatment rather than prevention because they both own stock in Regeneron (no pun) stock, to name a few.
There’s much much more that this dictator in the making has done in Florida and will do to the country if given the chance.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !