What do you mean?
I'm sure he'd love to have a conversation with them, at the long end of a 14ft table, with armed guards at every enterance point, 30ft from anyone else, under extreme surveillance, with everyone in the room thouroughly background checked and their private communications intercepted.
1.
In the first years of their dictatorship, when the set of essential supporters required to take power is too large to control.
Once they purge the essential supporters to a small, controllable number and prove that they can deliver the goods consistently, the dictator is extremely likely to survive.
In practice, once a dictator has been in power for 8 years (might be less, I can't find the number right now) they are nearly invincible.
Most don't make it.
The Mongols were nomads uninterested in ruling or economy, so when they invaded Russia (which was a collection of principalities at the time) , the system was straight forward, the population works, the princes extract as much of that product as possible, and they pay it as a tribute to the Mongols, else they just get beheaded.
Yup.
Sacked Constantinople when he was supposed to help, left the Eastern Roman Empire crippled and unable to fight off the invading Turks.
Rome is eventually conquered and the Spanish and Portuguese don't want to pay tariffs to the muslim Turks for goods from the Silk Road.
Looked for a trade route in the other direction, found and colonized the Americas, started buying and importing slaves from Africa to work their shiny new fields and mines.
We still haven't cleaned up the mess.
Super interesting, I come from the middle east but we often discuss family planning (in the community structure sense, not the put the damn condom on sense) and the topic of separating the community to a more nuclear structure often comes up as a way to reduce tensions somewhat, will have to give the video a full watch later.
2.
At the first sign of a terminal illness.
Dead leaders can't deliver on their promises.
So the leader needs to have an heir well-established before they get ill. And then the heir has no need of them and the leader loses power and possibly their life.