“George, the British Empire at present covers a quarter of the globe, while the German Empire consists of a small sausage factory in Tanganiki.
I hardly think that we can be entirely absolved of blame on the imperialistic front.”.
Hungarian here.
The mentioned asshole that is supposed to be our prime minister is nothing but a puppet that Putler controls by having it by the balls with something.
As far as I know, the russians released a planned map of Ukraine’s territories with the borders they wanted early on when they actually had a chance of winning.
That map showed some part of the country as a part of Hungary.
They are “denazifying” Ukraine, while planning to give territories to a country where the Prime Minister says shit like “we are not a mixed-SPECIES (!)
nation and we don’t want to become one”.
Orbán and Putin can go and dig themselves a hole to die in.
Corrupt welfare nationalism.
Yes.
And that is what he is and what i hate him for, and makes me want to shove an umbrella up his arse, open it and then pull it out.
Especially since Hungary issued Hungarian passports at Ukraine illegally already, and were engaged in separatist propaganda.
While orban himself is a pootin's asset.
Ukraine especially isn't well percieved in Hungary, because the part of their nation in which the Hungarians reside is generally left out of any form of improvement and basically use them as political Hostages, Hungary having to provide most basic form of education for them to be able to work in the future.
Hungary has a minor amount of minorities, due to obvious circumstances and almost all of its neighbouring nations hold 50k-1m Hungarians within their borders, which can't get their education in Hungarian, because their host nations ban the schools (Ukraine, Romania and Slovakia being the main culprits).
And meanwhile Hungary, with its already shit budget, because we finance the education for Hungarians in 3 of our neighbouring nations, finance the education of Slovaks, Romani, Croat, Servian, Romanian, Ukranian, Rusyns and Germans within our nation, because we're trying to get on their good side while we keep getting shat on.