In general, be courteous to others.
Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people.
Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Yes!
Everytime I visit other cities, there’s always something Missing.
New York City is a mixture of the best and the worst things but the best things stand out more to us.
It’s full of life, culture, differing opinions etc.
and NYC in the summer is beautiful.
I agree that the method of attack that the evangelical right has used to control the RNC should be utilized by American leftists to bully the DNC, but the necessary leftist base of support, messaging, and media apparatus hasn't been built/organized yet to make that happen, so I see RCV as the first step towards highlighting the contradictions of the moderate democrat without throwing away electoral power to republicans (an even more hostile entity that makes building leftist power even less likely).
the kicker?
there were no tax loopholes and any tax breaks would come DIRECTLY from the government to the businesses, i.e.
the government would have to directly give them the money, instead of some weird tax loopholes that accountants and big businesses dont want you to know about.
You buy anything, you get all taxes upfront at transaction.
The only bad thing would of been the import tax, as all imported items would be taxed upon arrival by the government and directly at the businesses but that only really hurt the businesses, It did however encourage buying/producing from within the US as you wouldnt have to pay the extra transport costs and additional fees due to tariffs and stuff seeing as basic resources tend to be cheaper than finished or partially finished products and manufacturing a product didnt get effected by any sort of tax.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The hope (probably naive) in my head is that democratic centrists can be tricked/subdued before they react to what's happened to them (similar to the evangelical right's approach over the Republican patty) over a sufficiently long period of time, but that will be a much harder task because while I think that the modern democratic party is a terrible organization for humanity, I do think they're competent in protecting capital interests much more so than the RNC was in quelling the evangelical movement.
The left-wing components of the democratic coalition don't have a critical mass yet needed to play the same "gun to the party's head" that the evangelical right has on the RNC, so I see RCV as the left's best route to building power until they gain that critical mass to start playing hard ball (short of major electoral reform that isn't in the financial interests of either the Democratic or Republican parties so it's unlikely to ever happen peacefully).
In the short term RCV helps moderates who are probably already going to win elections/re-elections, but once nothing fundamentally changes longer term it allows for infinitely harsher critiques of them and the growth of alternative parties/caucuses.
It makes it infinitely easier to critique the moderates on their policy outcomes without them being able to exclusively hide behind "well at least they're better than [other party candidate here]" and makes it much easier to grow further left power over time.