You're going to have to use a technique like web scraping + ocr to handle this most likely. The page is in flash which is why you're not seeing much in the source code. Flash, if your unfamiliar, works kind of like a video file that you can interact with in that it's an embedded file and not done with pure coding. That being said - it's a little tricky to pull this off.
You may want to explain why you're aiming to get this information as folks here may have some better ideas to help you accomplish what you're after.
I am not sure how best to ask this, as this my be a multi-pronged question, requiring different avenues of attack and my preconception of the solution is a basic input-function-output scenario. I am a n00b, so to speak, when it comes to scripting-macros-and-other-computer-automated-tasks and figured this might be a good jumping off point. I'm looking for an answer with in limitations, I want to know, but not too much.
(Q1) I want my computer to automatically copy randomly generated text from a website and paste it into simple text document as a list. The website is 'Random Word Machine' http://randomwordmachine.com/ and I want to copy the randomly generated English text as a list. 
A column-list would be preferred, not a row-list, I'd rather it not be numbered. I'll end up sort the list alphabetically in a spreadsheet. 
I have LibreOffice 4.2, MS Office 2003, AutoHotkey v1.1.14.03, Notepad++, and MS Visual Studio 2013 installed, to make use off.
I am looking for macros or scripts, I'd prefer a script (python,  perl or php would be a distant second) and I'd prefer a standard-basic library package. What about Windows PowerShell?
(Q2) How does that wascally web work?! Shouldn't I be able to "View page source", and see where the text is outputted to. Or use something like Wget and copy the functionality of a website?
Used AutoHotkey to write a small macro-script. The help file included with Autohotkey was more then enough to figure all this out, particularly the intro tutorial. Here's the macro-script I wrote; 
Thanks goes to "benshepherd" and "Bradley Forney".