Based on the information provided, no increasing your ISP speed will not increase your 802.11 wireless speed.
When you are looking at this type of question you are really asking, "where is the bottleneck"?
When you tested wired out through your router to the internet, you achieved approximately what you expect to see based on your 500Mbps of available bandwidth (460-480Mbps). This establishes that you can get at least 460Mbps along that path of the network.
When you extend your network over your 802.11 wireless, you get speeds of 260-280Mbps. This is where your bottleneck resides.
Think of this as a (simplistic) highway...if you have to get cars from point A to point C along a highway and A->B has two open lanes that can allow 2 cars per second while B-C has four lanes where you can allow 4 cars per second, where would you want to increase the traffic flow? Clearly you would want to increase the cars per second on the A->B section.
As for what would increase your wireless speed, there are many factors that contribute to this and would make this much too broad to answer. In general terms though, it is based on the capabilities of the wireless client, the capabilities of the access point and how the wireless network is configured.
At the current time, the best wireless devices widely available cannot support more than 4 spatial streams and 80MHz wide channels, giving a top data rate of 1300Mbps under ideal conditions. Many devices do not even have this capability (mainly because of a need for less battery drain or cheaper chipsets).
Since this is half-duplex and management traffic will take up a portion of the bandwidth, expect real world performance less than half the data rate. This will continue to decrease as you move the client device further from the AP, introduce noise into the environment (interference), add client devices, neighboring networks, and a number of other factors.
I have a connection of 500Mbps. I clock speeds of 460-480Mbps when plugged in (Ethernet, Cat5e).
But when I’m on Wi-Fi (even positioned above the router, 5GHz dual-channel 802.11ac) I clock speeds of only 260-280Mbps on an iPhone 6 (802.11ac).
My question is if I double my ISP connection to 1000Mbps, will the max. Wi-Fi speed of 260-280Mbps I get on my iPhone 6 double or stay the same?