I'm not a recruiter so I can't speak officially, but here's my take on it, coming from a programmer with at least 1 years experience.  
With just a high school diploma, it's going to be very hard for you to break into the industry.  You need to try to get a college degree and/or get some experience by lending your support to indie games.  Your best bet if you want to get in at this point without the college degree, is to see if you can get an internship at a small studio, if you're good enough already.  Now, even if you aren't good enough as it is, it doesn't mean you're not going to achieve your dream, you just have more work ahead of you to get where you want, which is normal.  
Now, since writing isn't as important as it should be at some studios, you might not be able to get hired at first as a writer, you might have to break your way in as a tester in QA or something.  Don't be shy, express your passion and it should be much easier to find a job, and this helps when trying to get into college too.  Since you have a specific focus on what you want to do, you might find it easier to get into college than if you just wanted to be a writer, not sure what field you wanted to go into.  
So, keep your head up, don't forget what you love to do and let others see it.  Good luck to you sir!
I remember being in your shoes, and figured I'd encourage you, as the industry is branching out in so many different directions.  I have a personal philosophy that any goal is attainable, with proper planning, discipline, and research.  If you set your mind to it ANYTHING is possible, which is why videogames in general are unbelievable.  Now to answer your question (though as the first answer states we shouldn't get into it on this forum so I'll be brief).. Your current position tells me cracking into the big leagues without degrees and and portfolio is not something that will happen now.  My advice is to break into the mobile scene (iOS, Android), by researching and contacting some smaller startups (like myself!) Your a lot more likely to get a chance and if your work is good, you have your first project in your portfolio.  Mobile gaming is getting big and indie developers are on the rise, get out your surfboard and surf the dream man.