It is possible some of those packages are required.  Auto-remove is all about how the packages got installed.
Lets assume you had used one or more big meta package that had dependencies that required many other packages to get installed.  When you remove that big meta-package all the packages that were automatically included will be be considered to no longer be required.
You may need them installed on your system, or maybe not.  You will have to evaluate the list of packages yourself.  A large number of those packages all have to do with a GUI desktop environment which you wouldn't be running on a server.  Assuming you are planning on removing the GUI, then a large majority of those packages can actually be removed.
But you also have a few things in that list that are not exclusively needed by the GUI like the PPP stuff, and the Apache related packages.  Those you may need to keep.
What you may need to do is simply go review the purpose of each package and then remove them one by one.  Or if you have a good backup of your system, then you could just remove everything, and restore the packages and any configuration if that is required.
How you proceed depends much on how you use the system and how critical downtime is.
If this is a personal machine, I'd log the packages being removed, absent libraries (but including development libraries which you may have added for build support), and commit the action including the autoremoval.  Note that serverfault is not for discussion of personal machines (see poweruser for that), but for production hosts and workstations.
If there's a given package from that list that you find you need, add it back.
In the event that there's some packaging conflict resulting in this request, it's generally easier to resolve these with fewer rather than more packages on your system.
If this is a production server of any stripe, I'd replicate its configuration elsewhere (on a virtual machine if necessary), and sort out what does and doesn't have to be there, and follow proper upgrade procedures.  Though I'd also ask what you're doing with rythmbox on a production server.