My laptop used to work fine. My girlfriend was moving to California for a month, so I gave it to her to take with her. It worked fine the day before she left. Once she got there, it wouldn't work. However, she was staying with her sister who was using WEP and refused to switch to WPA, so I suspected that was the issue or that she was giving my girlfriend the wrong passcode.
Now she's back, and the laptop is definitely broken. I am able to "ping google.com", or any domain for that matter, and it resolves just fine. Tracert works as well with any domain, so I'm pretty sure it's not a DNS issue. I've tried pointing the browser to the IP address that showed up when I pinged google.com in the command prompt. I tried:
However, since I reformatted and tried a USB WiFi card, and the problem is still exactly the same, I'm beginning to believe it's a motherboard problem. It's an "ASUS N61JQ-XV1". It's taken a few falls in its days, mostly from the top of the bed onto the carpet, nothing major, and it has always worked fine after. I'm wondering if it was just barely still working when I sent her off, and it got jarred around on the plane or something and finally broke. However, it's strange that pinging works fine but not the browser, or any Windows program for that matter.
Here's the result of ping, tracert, and ipconfig /all:
You want to start ruling things out. Since you're re-intalled after a reformat, it isn't the OS.  Since you're able to ping, you've established that your network card can send and receive data.  That also means your motherboard is fine.
After the clean install of Windows, did you test before installing any other third-party software, such as Virus Scan, Firewalls, etc?
In what way is your browser/windows applications "broken"?  You say you tried putting in Google's IP address into the browser.  What result did you get? A blank page, 404 Error, some other error?
One possibility is that your router has content filtering enabled, or a mis-configured port forwarding rule.  Have you been playing with your router configuration?  Do you have any port forward rules for port 80?
A way to rule out your router configuration is to test that you are able to get HTTP data through your network card.  You can use Telnet from the command line to test this:
You should get the contents of a web page.  If not, something outside of your computer is allowing some kinds of network traffic but limiting others, such as HTTP traffic.  Things to look at would be your router, or an upstream proxy server.