Note that Diablo 3 had the real-money auction house. (before it was removed)
How it worked: Players could purchase in-game digital items from other players using real money. There was a similar, but separate, auction house doing the same thing using in-game gold. The items are sold similar to how many MMOs have some version of an "auction house". A small cut of the action went to Blizzard.
The auction house was removed from Diablo 3, because it ruined the actual game. Loot and getting more powerful is the "reward" for playing in that game (and in many dungeon crawlers.. and in most MMOs to some extent). Players kept some amount, say the top 5%, of the Loot they collected. The stockpile of Loot grows and grows. Now you suddenly could afford an item which you normally would have taken days, if not weeks, to find. Your character's capabilities jumps immensely, to a level which would take an extremely long amount of time to get higher. As people continued to play, their character's capabilities felt like it was going nowhere, because they almost immediately reached a point where the effort was not worth the reward for them, and they quit playing.
Why it works for Eve Online: Eve has a massive amount of destruction happening. Ships, items, and isk(money) are destroyed at a rate nearly as fast as they are created. Since Eve is not a game "all about" items (It's a stressful game if you try to play that way and aren't good at it), they can get away with this massive destruction where many MMOs cannot. This helps prevent the incredible amount of inflation and stockpiling which happened to Diablo 3. From my understanding, stockpiling was a worry to Eve online some time ago - players were stockpiling massive amounts of resources in null sec (player-owned areas, which were supposed to have a lot of pvp), which is part of the reason they rebalanced the distribution of resources and pushed players to once again engage in more war. I cannot speak for Entropia Universe, but I hope they also have some strategy in place to prevent inflation.
The problem with "cashing out": Outside of actual gambling games(where everyone puts in "real money" to begin with), a "cashing out" means that you have generated a bunch of in-game stuff and are giving them to the economy in exchange for something that is not within that economy. Things are going in, nothing is coming out. Most people would probably prefer real money like that - compared to how most games have some "destruction" mechanism whereby you would instead destroy the item for (possibly) some other item. "Cashing out" inherently starts generating a stockpile of "good" items that people believe they can get real money for, and few games have the innate amount of destruction involved to help mitigate this innate tendency for the items to be generated or resold more than they are discarded or destroyed.
The legalities: I only briefly scanned through it, but you may be interested in reading the old Terms of Service for the Diablo 3 auction house.
You were really buying or selling "Loot Licenses" in Diablo ("Loot" is a legal term according to the TOS). Agreeing to the TOS means you accept that all "Loot" is still owned by Blizzard. Blizzard is a big company, and presumably had a lot of legal people working out the kinks to make it available to as many countries as possible, but still could not make the auction house available to every country - as said by some of the legalese. They did manage to be available in most consumer countries though.
I think the answer lies in what a game is. To most people, a game is something where you relax and can have carefree fun.
Some people will have more fun if game money is real money, but others will have less fun. So inherently it seems unlikely that linking game money to real money will make a better or more lucrative game. That doesn't have to be the case - it's sufficient that game developers and publishers think that's the case.
The other issue is risk, complexity, and cost. Linking real money and game money brings much larger risks in regards to legal, public perception, and hacker attacks. It brings legal and technical complexity, especially if you want to operate in more than a single jurisdiction. These create cost, which has to be offset somehow, or it's not worth linking real money and game money.