You already saw that by setting skype to use Stereo Mix, you can have your skype contacts listen to music on the call.
But, if you are using Windows Vista or Windows 7, you can go ahead and set your Microphone settings to Listen on the Speakers for your system.
So, open your Recording Devices, double click on the microphone (right click -> properties, same thing), click 'Listen On' and choose the proper device (usually the default speakers).
When you do that, you will be able to hear yourself on the speakers, which is true, but they will be able to hear you as well.  And the music too boot :)
It is what we do here, when we need to play important messages to our phone clients, and also leave them messages, while still being able to talk live to them :)
The Virtual Audio Cable (VAC) is only part of the solution. Well, sometimes you can get this setup working, but it ends up with your voice and all other sound echoing back either in your headset (if you send things to your speakers you'll likely get a feedback loop).
The rest of the answer is to use another app from VB-Audio (the developer of VAC), which is the VoiceMeeter donateware app.  This app can pipe up to 3 inputs to up to 2 groups of outputs selectively.  For example, you can send your microphone to just a virtual audio device that is being used by Skype and/or other programs for recording and broadcasting/streaming, so it doesn't echo back your voice in your headset. You can then take up to 2 other inputs, one is the VoiceMeeter virtual input, which you normally setup as the system default device so all apps will use it.  The other will normally be setup as an extra virtual audio device from the VAC device you mentioned. This way all apps on your PC will use the virtual VoiceMeeter input by default for their output, and you can have Skype go to the VAC device - this let's you route the Skype output only to your local devices, so you aren't feeding it back incoming sounds from other participants right back to them.  Meanwhile, all other apps on your PC will be setup to broadcast both locally and to your recording/streaming apps. 
More information on these programs, where to get them, etc., is in my answer to another question here.