You haven't got the concepts of public/private key (also called assymetric) cryptography quite right. Each set of public and private keys is split, you publish the public key so others can use it and keep the private key private. Signatures issued by the private key can be verified through the public key, messsages encrypted using the public key can be decrypted with the private key. There is no immediate relationship between primary key and subkey pairs in OpenPGP, these are completely different key pairs.
The default setup in GnuPG is you have a primary key pair used for certification and signatures, while the encryption subkey is used for encryption only. Using RSA, you could also generate primary keys supporting all those operations (and with GnuPG and the --expert flag, you can!). This is mostly because of other algorithms like DSA and Elgamal, which only support one of the operations (DSA is for signing only, Elgamal for encryption) where you need to have different keys.
There is also some advantage in having different keys for different usages: consider a flaw is found that allows to calculate a private key from signatures under certain conditions. While your signing key would be targeted, the encryption subkey is another one and not targeted by this attack. Some people even consider restricting the primary key to certification only and adding two subkey pairs is best practice, one for signing, one for encryption.
In OpenPGP, a special kind of binding signature is issued when a subkey is created. Subkeys capable of signing can also issue such a binding signature on the primary key. Those special signature are defined in RFC 4880, OpenPGP, 5.2.1.  Signature Types:
Usually, in GnuPG key IDs and UIDs are always resolved to the primary key. All export operations (and uploading to a keyserver is also considered an export) also export the subkeys, user IDs and certifications on your key. Similar things exist for other operations like signing and encrypting. If you really want to denote a subkey for operations, you have to add ! behind the subkey (eg. gpg --recipient 0xDEADBEEF! --encrypt).
I like to think of the relationship between the master key and subkeys like the relationship between a certificate authority (CA) and the certificates that it signs and issues.  Third parties trying to attest certificates establish a trust with the CA and the use its public key to verify its signature of the certificates that it has issued.  Likewise, you have other people verify your PGP master key and sign it (i.e. the whole decentralized, web of trusts thing).  Then you use your subkeys for all practical work of signing and encrypting data. When others want to attest the validity of the subkeys, they use the fact that your master key is (hopefully) trusted (because it has been signed by other keys that are trusted) and can then be used to verify the signature on the subkeys, thereby establishing the subkeys as trusted.
The master keys should be rarely used except for things like signing new subkeys.