well, I don't agree that your ping output represents a dns leakage, because it is unlikely that ping actually tried to resolve the private IP with your public servers. First note that the .local and .dev addresses were resolved with local resources (hosts file, or a zeroconf lookup interface). There is no evidence that any of your addresses were sent to the public servers. They would never respond with .dev or .local responses.
Beyond that, pinging out the wrong interface isn't something an attacker could actually do to you, because even if they were monitoring the dns server for requests from your network that might provide info on it, they will only get back what they put in, so nothing is discovered. If you don't do ping on the wrong network, then there is no likelihood that ping is exposing information about your LAN to the dns servers.
Last, the issue if there is one, is with ping itself, and there is no way to change its desire to lookup, except to use -n when running it.  DNS leaks occur in applications, and if the application can't be configured with network configuration, it can't be easily fixed. In your case, your network layout is designed to prevent this kind of issue by forcing the eeepc to use the main PCs dnsmasq, so anything from the eeepc is hidden, but if you misuse the main pc as you have in this example, you circumvent those protections. 
In sum, you have discovered a way to bypass the protections you set up, I don't believe that you actually exposed any info publically in this test, and more than that, aside from the specific scenario you are testing, I don't believe that an attacker could use this method to bypass any protections, unless they already had strong control over the main PC.
Initially fighting against DNS Leak, for both knowledge and privacy, I end with a computer that asks the FAI box for a local address located outside of its scope (another network)... I've spend hours trying to understand the reasons for that.
What I want is wlan1 to check if IP is in its scope, or (if a hostname is provided) with dnsmasq if hostname exists and, in this case, resolv and tell me it can't proceed. Instead, wlan1 continue the check and ask the FAI box...
Second I removeed, --purged and finally removed manually (because it was not well done) everything that was related to resolvconf package.
Third I've chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf. The file contains : 
And I've added the strict-order directive to /etc/dnsmasq.conf
Finally I connected to the wifi which is WEP secured :
The main computer see the eePC on the correct interface : 
The main computer ends to ask the FreeBox to resolv the eeePC. I'm afraid it is a DNS leak. But above all, I feel like there is something I miss completely...