Playtest. No, really, just playtest your balance until you get it right, or rather mostly right (there's no such thing as perfect balance).
Write automated tests and run them hundreds of times. Even very simple automated tests, like "level 2 player always hits with shortsword, goblin always hits with club, player should win" can really help, if you run these tests often (generally, whenever you change anything). 
Also, test balance by playing. Whenever you find some new potentially balance-changing tactic, write an automated test for it.
Difficulty is perceived as a combination of time, risk, and meaningful choice. RPGs usually start off with small encounters that are very quick, have little risk, and little meaningful choice. This continues while the player is learning the game and the character they are playing. As new abilities are introduced, more meaningful choice is introduced. Do you use poison at the start of the fight or just go for direct attack. Along with this comes longer fights and more risk. If a player can kill a creature in 2 basic attacks or 2 special attacks, there isn't much choice. You need more granularity to have more meaningful choices.
To get to this sort of growth, you need to control the length of encounters. In large scale development, this is done with formulas, which are much later fine tuned after extensive play-testing.
Formulas are written only after requirements are established, and are generally used as a baseline for fights. You can create variations of the baseline after you have established the baseline.
Lets take a simple example using only damage and health, with a level cap of 20. The base enemy has 10+5/level health and the average damage per round of the player is 8+2/level. You can put those equations into Excel and you come out with something like this:
If you want to increase the time to kill (TTK) for later levels, you could either increase enemy health scaling or decrease player damage scaling.
Of course this is only one dimension of the combat. You would have to create another set of formulas for player health and enemy damage. The TTK for the creature vs the player should be higher (it should take longer for a creature to kill the player than visa versa), but the closer you get to 20, the closer the numbers should get, for increasing difficulty.
Add in avoidance and mitigation requires you to combine the damage formulas with the mitigation % or miss chance to determine the actual average expected damage. The damage values above would be the target numbers for each level that you try to balance around. 
Once you have squared away your baseline creature, then you can create variations, such as glass cannons that do high damage but have lower health. If you put in the work at the start to build a good baseline enemy for all level ranges, then creating new enemies that are near balanced is actually fairly simple.