iSCSI is a protocol for accessing block devices over a network.  No more, no less.  Redundancy, scaling, device management, and so on, are not the protocol's concern.  The answers to all your questions trivially derive from that.
On the larger point, SAN and NAS are not concrete technologies, but rather they are vaguely-defined concepts, and not even mutually-exclusive.  NAS equipment can have significant redundancy, and SANs often have painful single-points-of-failure.  Don't focus so much on "do I have a NAS, or a SAN?" but rather "does this specific product meet my requirements?", regardless of what buzzwords the vendor has applied to the box.
Given your storage requirements, the business-critical nature of the storage, and the cost and complexity of large-scale storage equipment, I strongly recommend you engage the services of someone with experience in deploying and managing these types of systems.  Getting it wrong will cost you either a bucket load of money for unnecessary equipment, or your business (or both!).
The Problem: I have a photography studio, and I ran into a problem when I just ran out of space on a monthly basis. Every month I just purchased additional HDD for a file server. now I have approx 120 TB of data, and 120 TB for backup. I am looking for a solution that scales well since this storage will double almost every week from now on due to adding a 16-bit 8k video to the storage which takes up a lot of space.
My theoretical solution: I looked at NAS devices and one thing that i don't like is if it fails - the business fails. So then I started researching an alternative and found SAN. which is a bit more complicated and sound like it is a lot pricier then NAS solution. The reason I want to go with SAN is that if one block of the storage fails I have other blocks still available (with mirroring backups).
The Question: So after reading on how to set up SAN with ISCSI, I got very confused. SAN is a network of storage devices that runs ISCSI software. A target is a storage unit and initiator is a client. Target appears to be mounted like a local hard drive. that is a simple part of it, but What about scaling this whole thing. for example, if I have 5 servers that ran ISCSI target software can I merge them all together to be seen as 1 storage block.
3) if yes, can I manage accpartitions?partitions ?
or I completely didn't get an idea about SAN and ISCSI protocol.
And yes, I don't have money for fibre channel sadly. just yet :) Thanks for your attention