There's an old joke that English will be the language of Heaven, because Americans won't learn foreign languages.  Microsoft seems to have internalized this joke...
I am an American English speaker; I occasionally need to type in Russian, so I install the Russian Phonetic Student (aka "yasherty") keyboard and occasionally switch to it.  As soon as I install it, all of my printers default to A4 paper instead of Letter.  Since the two sizes are pretty close, it's usually not a problem - but labels (actually, anything with narrow margins) don't work properly, and various documents insist on being loaded into the manual-feed tray of whatever printer I happen to be using.  (It took me a while to understand why that was happening - that was how I initially discovered that my paper size had changed.)
I can go to Properties for each installed printer, and in Preferences - Paper/Quality - Advanced I can set the Paper Size for each tray the printer supports.  That fixes the problem.  However, if I install another printer - or if PDFCreator updates itself - I have to do it again. 
This happens in Windows XP, Vista, 7, and 8 (I never installed an alternate keyboard before XP); it happens with the Russian Phonetic, Russian Standard, Russian Typewriter, and various French keyboard layouts.  My Region and/or Locale settings (depending on the Windows version) have always been United States/English - but as soon as I indicate that I might speak another language, Windows apparently decides I'm European, and sets my paper size accordingly.
I've not done this myself so apologies if it doesn't quite work out. However...
I think that you need to look at the international settings. You should be able to add the alternative keyboard to your US settings without it changing everything else. I think that what is happening is that you are changing locale's and that brings with it changes to date displays, currency, etc. If you can live without those things then manually adding the Russian keyboard to your US settings should work.