We have a small organization, with two Hyper-V R2 hosts. We're adding a third host, and will need to migrate some VMs from one of the existing hosts onto the new host. The idea is to replace the over-specced server for a small site with 10 users with a smaller server, and then use the big beefy server back at our main site to split the load and improve reliability. Complicated, but the only way I can think of to correct this initial misallocation of resources.
What's the best way to do this, minimizing downtime? I am OK with downtime if needed, but it would be nice not to need much. The VMs are for a small site, but include a domain controller and primary file server, so it will be disruptive. We do not have centralized storage--we have DAS for both the new and old VM hosts. SATA. I think the network at this remote site is gigabit, but it may only be 10/100. I have multiple NICs on both machines, so I could use a crossover Ethernet to speed up the network aspect. 
I know that SCVMM can be used to do a "quick migration", that may be only a few minutes on a fast network. It's expensive for an organization our size, especially with only 3 Windows VM hosts. Is there an easy way (or complicated way that I can get step by step directions for) to do this without purchasing this product? If I download the trial (this is really a one-time migration deal so I'm okay with the 120 day limit), will it be easy to continue using the built-in Hyper-V product without locking myself in to upgrading to SCVMM?
Without shared storage you need to plan on downtime. The downtime is going to depend on the size of your VMs, especially massive VMs stored on regular sata disks can take HOURS, I just migrated a 1.2TB VM over a 1GB connection that was stored on SATA disks migrating to SATA disks. It took about 14 hours in total. I moved a 600GB VM on some enterprise SAS drives over a 1GB connection and that only took about 2 hours. So the disk system plays a HUGE part. Feel free to install the SCVMM trial, it goes in and out cleanly and will work side by side with the built in Hyper-V tools. There are two versions of SCVMM, the enterprise version and the small business version. The SMB version is restricted to managing 5 systems and is considerably cheaper so if you like SCVMM that might work well for you. All in all my best long term recommendation is to start budgeting for some shared storage and do some testing with SCVMM. 