There doesn't seem to be an easy way to search for packages in apt so I'm using dpkg to search for java-related packages:
I proceed to remove java-common, however when it finishes java is still installed and java -version still shows the same thing.
Nothing changes, the java-common package even still appears in the dpkg search. What am I missing?
I also removed OpenJDK, which seemed to set it to "deinstall":
I came across this because I am working through an instructional book for android programming which wants to use a specific Java SE and JRE (8u121) and requests that all other java packages be removed before continuing with the installation. So after reading the above ideas I went with:
So the above suggests that there is no java found of any version. Which is the OP wanted to do (I think).
In case somebody finds this thread because they are uninstalling Java so that they can install an Old Version, I have included a walk-through I found. The first two codes help you install it if you had no GUI. If you have a tarball then skip those. The last codeblock has some parts that you'll need to edit if you are not installing my same version.
In case that you are attempting to install Java JDK remotely and have absolutely no access to Graphical User Interface and web browser use the following curl method to download Java JDK using a command line.
First, obtain a correct download URL by using the curl command:
The above command outputs a bunch of URLs for your selection. To initiate the download of the desired Java file, copy its URL and start the download using the curl command while accepting the requested Jave license. For example:
At this stage, we should have an appropriate Java JDK tarball within our current working directory:
Extract the previously downloaded Java JDK tarball:
Currently, the system does not recognise our Java JDK installation:
Use the update-alternatives command to inlcude both, java and javac as part of the system's Java environment.Please replace the below path to java binaries where appropriate to reflect your downloaded java version:
Okay so after I followed that I wanted to confirm that it works...
Then I became concerned that it 'apt update' may just undo what I did by updating the package (unsure). So I put them on hold. To remove hold: apt-mark unhold.