Not expecting a critter in a FB page, I clicked on it.  Instantly a new icon for "White Trader" appeared on my Desktop, a message about not using it "in long time" popped up, Dropbox loaded itself and updated itself(which I rarely, if ever, use) and Windows Explorer is unresponsive.  Task Manager didn't want to start, though I worked around that.  Malware Bytes and Housecall didn't locate it.  I'm running Kapersky now, so far it has revealed 6 malware infections.  I don't mind paying for the program to remove it...but I have no idea if what it has found is the cause of the problem.  I do have a clone copy of the C: drive on a separate partition of a different drive, but would rather not lose the updates on the original c:.  White Trader seems to be a legitimate options trading site, complete with live chat (and a friendly person on the other end.) using XP32, 3rd rev. Any suggestions?
to resolve the Windows Explorer crashing, I was able to do a System Restore thanks to an automated point being created from a Flash Update (it was hidden until "show older restore points" box was checked), though a Restore Point I had created a few weeks ago had been deleted
To remove the malware involved, I googled '"White Trader" desktop' and followed this thread
the only step I used was downloading AdwCleaner, placing it on desktop, running as Administrator, running a search, and then cross referencing the results with the  AdwCleanerR1.txt that was posted
since everything listed looked similar, I chose the Delete option, and following the restart, problem was resolved
( a few Registry results that showed up uniquely on my scan were \Tracing\SnapDo and \Classes\CLISD)
(each of the Internet Browser results contained "feed.snap.do" in their names)
I do not know what the result of running AdwCleaner without the wow.dll issue being resolved would be, i.e. running a Norton Power Scan yielded no results other than pointing out wow64.dll for deletion, which seemed like a bad idea.
Also keep in mind that I'm by no means an expert, but hope this helps