Simply speaking, oversubscription is the concept of providing more downstream capacity than your infrastructure can actually provide. Let me give you a few examples to illustrate this concept:
You make use of oversubscription anytime it makes sense (in many organizations, this means save money or reduce ) in your business model and design. From the examples above, clearly it doesn't make sense to assume that every client connected to the network will fully utilize their maximum available bandwidth 100% of the time. Some client devices may be powered off, not in use, only produce a small amount of traffic, etc. Exactly how far you choose to oversubscribe is determined by the expectations of the business need.
Or, it makes little sense to provide an actual switch port for every copper connection run to a closet. Most deployments run excess copper cabling (pulling two runs when you need one, adding runs to multiple locations in an office to allow for different furniture placement, etc) when they do the work as it is often far cheaper to do so than to only run what you actually need and add additional cabling based on changing needs after the fact. Providing switch ports for each cable run increases the cost of purchasing and operating (i.e. power, support, etc) equipment.
This is going to be highly dependent on the exact type of oversubscription you are referring to and the actual need(s) of the business/organization in that environment. In some cases this may be quite high, in others you may not be able to oversubscribe at all.
Most organizations will have different needs in different areas of their network, so often have different ratios in different places. For example, an organization's office space and data centers are likely to have significantly different oversubcription ratios.
Not directly as this is more of a design concept. However there are features that are present to accommodate the use of oversubcription in a network. Here are a couple of examples:
These types of features and the capabilities they provide is going to be highly device specific and may change from one version of software to another. Using QoS as an example the size and number of queues that a device has available will vary.
Oversubscription generally refers to potentially requiring more resources from a device, link, or component than are actually available.
Consider a typical 2-layer network topology, with access switches and a central core switch.  The access switches have 24 user ports and one uplink port.  The uplink port is connected to the core switch.
Each access switch has 24 1Gb user ports and a 10Gb uplink port.  So, in theory, if all the user ports transmitted to a server at the same time, they would require 24Gb of bandwidth (24 x 1Gb).  But the uplink port is only 10Gb, so that limits the maximum bandwidth to all the user ports.  
We say the uplink port is oversubscribed, because the theoretical required bandwidth (24Gb) is greater than the available bandwidth (10Gb).  Oversubscription is expressed as a ratio of required bandwidth to available bandwidth.  In this case it's 24Gb/10Gb or 2.4:1.
There are many other examples of oversubscription in networking. They are all based on the idea that statistically, not all ports will require maximum bandwidth at the same time.
Oversupscription is not a configurable parameter per se, but it is a feature of some components and the topology.  You can choose devices or design your network to adjust the oversubscription as needed.