You need a wireless router that supports multiple SSID's.  If the router supports multiple SSID's then it usually supports the capability to make one private and one public, and limit bandwidth, etc. accordingly.  Note that this isn't the same as multiple "physical access points" but presents multiple "logins" through a single access point.
SOHO/business class routers are the ones that might tend to have this feature.  A company I used to work for subscribed to DSL and got a Netopia router which is capable of this.
One option you may want to consider using is the installation of a directional antenna  or two in the ceiling pointing down, instead of using an omnidirectional antenna.  There are all sorts of different external antennas you can get which have beam widths of, say 90 degrees.  You could put this in the upper corner of your establishment, pointing down and back towards where you want coverage.
This is like putting blinders on the wireless access point, so that it can't "see" people that aren't in your business.  It can also improve performance by increasing the signal within your business (the same radio energy is concentrated to a smaller space, increase penetration through walls, and reduce interference from surrounding businesses that may have wireless networks, cordless phones, or other devices on the same frequencies.
People in neighboring businesses will get a weak signal if they get any signal at all.
You could also try installing a second AP in the dining room, and turning down the power on both wireless APs.  This will also reduce the coverage area.
These techniques may be able to reduce or eliminate the amount of "stealing" of your wireless that goes on, without requiring that you change the network password regularly.  However, if you have an oddly shaped coverage area it may require several APs and antennas.
So now that you are sure that it's only people in your business using it, you can deal with using shaping or quality of service to limit the amount of impact they have on your business critical network services as mentioned by other folks here.  Remember that you not only have to limit incoming bandwidth but also outgoing.  I've often found that when network performance really gets bad, it's because of someone saturating the outbound bandwidth (usually a small fraction of the incoming) with file sharing or a virus or worm.
One thing you may want to consider is getting another network connection for customers.  Your credit card services may not need that much bandwidth, but you really want them to work no matter if someone is doing file sharing or not.  So an inexpensive line for that, and then another line that is independent that the customers can share.