Without indexes, any time  the search query is run, all 2 million records have to be searched to find the 650K 'FR' instances.  With indexes, the database can essentially go straight to them.  Even if you left the search query as-is, I think proper indexes would give you speed improvements.
As far as the temp table, I really don't see why that couldn't be done as a sub in the final results query.  Aside from that, I think temp tables would be more useful for persistent connections to the DB, or pools of users.  If you're just creating the temp table and immediately destroying it... then it's basically just being used as a subquery.
Update: M_M makes a good point in his comment on this answer.  However, I still feel an index would be better if the majority of activity is not just on sets where country is the only criteria.  For me (just my opinion) it would come down to how often the 'FR' subset would be needed by itself with no other criteria.  Otherwise, indexes could be used in the marjority of the searches.
It is very difficult to accurately suggest a solution with no ability to run testing, or see how the DB is indexed etc. But I'm going to try anyway. 
You ideally need to find a balance, if your query is likely to return a lot of data and run quickly then I would err towards running the query on the main table twice, if it is likely to take a long time and return a relatively small number of rows then I would stick with the temp table approach.
Given the information you have provided in the question it appears as though there is no problem with the speed of the select, in which case I would tend to agree with you, the additional cost of inserting into a temp table, then selecting from the temp table is as much overhead as performing the select query twice. The queries can be simplified as follows:
If you do find this is a performance hit and you would rather cache the results of the select I'd be inclined to use table variables instead of temp tables, and only store the Holiday ID primary key, and join back to holiday on the fast indexed join of primary key = primary key as follows:
This way you are caching as little data as possible (one column of integers), while still retaining enough data to do a fast indexed search on dbo.Holiday. 
It ultimately has to come down to looking at your execution plans, creating proper indexes and testing various approaches to find the one that best suits you.