After finding out that Chromium is stuck at version 22 (current version is 31) I decided to switch to Firefox ie Iceweasel browser on Raspbian because it is kept updated.
Install Chromium on your Raspberry Pi with apt-get
At first, we have to update our packages. Open a terminal and type in:
Then, you can install it also by using the packet manager:
Alternatively you can install the package chromium-browser instead of chromium.
That’s all! If you are connected through SSH or not using the graphical user interface, you should start (startx). Otherwise you can also establish a remote desktop connection. Now click the start button and navigate to “Internet” where you will find the Chromium shortcut.
If you want to compile the Raspberry Pi Chrome (Chromium) Browser yourself, visit their Google Source repository where you can also check the code. The code is not available on GitHub, but that makes no difference for cloning and compiling the repository. But you should know that the files to download are about 15 gigabyte (after installing in fact 22 GB). This is why I recommend the first option, if you only want to install it quickly. If the installation above failed (for any reason) or you want to inspect / change the code, this is how you can do it (you must have a Raspberry Pi Model 2B / 3, because the models before have not 4 kernels):
If you haven’t already installed git, you have to install it first:
Next, we clone the whole repository to a specific folder, which we create and then go into this directory.
Now you can check out the needed files (about 15 GB). Make sure that your micro SD card (32GB or more) has enough empty disk space.
Depending on your internet speed this step can take a while. After finished downloading all files, you can compile the project.
Note: Exagear, which is needed is not free it does cost a few bucks for a license!
Raspbian has 100MB of swap by default. You should change it to 2000MB in the configuration file. So you will have to find this line:
Press F3 key to save changes and F2 to close the file. Then restart dphys-swapfile to apply changes:
Download ExaGear Desktop archive with installation packages and license key. Unpack the downloaded archive by entering the following command in Terminal:
Install and activate ExaGear on your RPi by running install-exagear.sh script in a directory with deb packages and one license key:
Enter the guest x86 system by using the following command:
Starting the shell in the guest image  /opt/exagear/images/debian-8
Now you are in the x86 environment that can be checked by running the arch command:
It is recommended to update apt-get repositories on the first launch of the guest system: