Is it possible for Malware to infect a machine (i.e. not just a user account) running in a standard user account when UAC is enabled, if the process is not elevated?
I ask because I want to know how protected my machine will be, with others using it online and potentially downloading software.
Yes malware can infect your computer if you are running as a standard user with UAC enabled.
When you perform any action on a computer - browse a webpage, execute an application, open a file - it is done in the context of your user... meaning that it is done in the confines of your users allowed rights.
As a normal non admin user (or even as a user with UAC prompted admin rights) - these actions can include:
...basically anything your user can do without UAC interaction, malware can do with your users rights
It's very much worth noting that the internet is a 2 way street.  If a user visits a less than reputable site (or even a compromised reputable one) - Javascript, Flash, plugins, the browser itself can all be exploited to remotely execute code on your PC without your knowledge using a whole number of different methods such as XSS (Cross Site Scripting).
If one of these attacks are executed against you - the code being executed will execute as the user which has the browser opened (IE, as your user account)
When this happens to a user, the only real restriction to what can be executed is the rights of the user.
A non-admin, restricted user account gives some form of damage limitation - but the amount of damage done can still be quite large and once your machine is infected - the only real way to ensure you're completely clean again is to wipe your machine, restore your files from backups and start again.. not nice.
It's also worth noting that the horrible crypot locker style infections that are so rampant at the minute don't require admin rights to run - but can still lock you out of every document on your PC (and attached external disks, network drives and so on)
Of course, all of this won't guarantee you will stay clear of infections - but it will definitely significantly lower your risk level.