First off, do some research on the psychology of gambling.
You can't expect something that most of the time constantly eats your money without any reward to become addictive.
Don't give out free rounds, give out money equivalent to free rounds. Have a constant streams of wins and losses
Adjust the payout so that after 1000 spins, the bank is ahead, but not by much.
Also it seems you have a enter bet, and then press to spin. You should have a few quick bet buttons, with a preset amount, that pays and instantly bets and spins. As well as a way to enter a custom amount, if you really need to have one.
When the player wins, make sure to have flashing lights and bells going off sounds of coins falling, etc. If can set up an area in the world with lots of slot machines with different prices and rules, it will make it more likely that a user will move around to try change his luck or to have some variation. If you can sync these areas up to allow other users to see/hear winners it will also increase everyone's excitement.
I think it's important to draw a distinction between "fun" and "addiction".  Slot machines are not fun, and never have been;  they are skinner boxes which apply feedback according to a simple reward schedule when the user pulls a lever, in an attempt to condition the user into repeated behaviour.  As such, they can be fabulously addictive.  Adjusting prizes and reward schedules will never make a slot machine fun;  they will only make it more (or less) addictive.
If your goal is really to make the game fun (and not just make it more addictive), then you're going to need to add some play dynamics, so that the player can make meaningful choices which affect the outcome (as happened with video poker), or can affect the outcome via application of physical skill (as happened with pinball).  
Or in other words, in order to make a slot machine actually be fun, you need to make it no longer be just a slot machine;  it needs to be something that will stimulate the mind.
On the other hand, if addiction is actually what you were aiming for, then the answers from AttackingHobo and Tetrad are pretty much spot on.