I was reading this article when I came across this curious tid bit:
So what's the difference between "Archive Software" and "Backup Software" and why are archive searches quick and inexpensive?  Was the judge right about this, or just confused?
An Archive is usually a bulk storage system (NAS, SAN, file servers) that offload older items from the live production databases in email servers, file servers, databases, etc. The data is still live and accessible, it's just offloaded to a system that is likely slower and less utilized. It can also hold onto deleted items for arbitration purposes like the article you referenced. Some laws like SOX and HIPAA require certain levels of retention.
Backups are simply that. They are a disaster recovery system for when the worst of the worst happens. It could be something as simple as recovering a file that was accidentally deleted, or a mailbox that was corrupted. It can also save your job when a server dies or a building burns down (if you have a proper backup solution in place).
Both involve thinking ahead, but for different reasons. An archive is not a backup and a backup is not a very good archive. If you work in a legal or medical field or any field that requires archiving, there are several methods. Email archiving, for instance, can be achieved by the last 3 versions of MS Exchange (maybe 2007?) by purchasing Exchange Enterprise CALs and creating an Archive Database. Therefore, instead of archiving to the local HDD, you can instead offload old email items to a secondary database. Arbitration holds can be set up as well to retain all items in Exchange including those deleted.
I've had to pull emails from backups before and I promise it's not cheap. I charged several thousands of $$ to do the full scan. I will say tape backups, although efficient, have become obsolete. Many backup systems I deploy nowadays has a storage pool in two locations that are replicated. Critical systems have two locations plus a cloud storage vendor.