Honestly speaking, I am not entirely sure US Government military spending is anymore honest than their Russian or Chinese counterpart.
What?
US was allowed to keep 660K ton fleet, but Japan was allowed to keep 402K.
Now you could argue with American Industrial might, they could easily outproduce Japan if the treaty is lost, but most Japanese interpret it as a snub from the west and it was a prime cause for Japan prepping WWII.
US broke Japanese codes, which was part of why it became a snub, but, akshully, the prime cause of WW2 prepping from Japan basically was their own disintegrating internal politics.
Japan in the 30s was a huge trainwreck that's actually fascinating, it's literally called "the period of government by assassination".
You have the army starting wars on its own just out of boredom, the navy assassinating members of civil government, both of them assassinating each other and refusing to cooperate to the point that they'd sabotage each other's ops in WW2, extreme hyper-nationalism and racism, and just a total mess that was never going to play nice with anyone.
The actual tipping point was that the US refused to sell them oil because they just couldn't stop committing war crimes in China, but it was gonna happen no matter what; it was the US or the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union kicked the shit out of them handed them a strategic defeat in 1940 so they thought the US would be easier for...some reason.
You also are uninformed on the reality of what the treaty limits; it limits deployed warheads.
Having a billion old bombs in a warehouse doesn't mean anything.
You need to get the bombs onto a target.
And they very surely cannot get even 6000 onto target; treaties limited them to around 800, most of which were deployed through laughably-easy-to-intercept means.
The whole "it's a snub" trope is kinda off.
I mean yeah but like, in the same way that you can "snub" a drug addict who asks for money by saying no.
They were not rational actors by any means at that point; remember, they'd already attacked multiple sovereign nations without control of the civil government and without any reason apart from "meh, lower officer got antsy".