I mean, kids trying to murder people happens in other countries, too.
Famously, two 10 year olds in the UK kidnapped, brutally tortured, and murdered a 2 year old, just for fun.
Teachers abusing children is also fairly common, which includes a sizable percentage of female teachers.
Oh, I agree the parents should be held accountable.
I don’t think the police should make the same leap that the husband is abusive from the child attacking a woman, though.
That kind can cause more harm than good when beginning an investigation.
And it’s a little unfair to hyper focus on mass shooters being predominantly male, when it’s not unique to that category of crime.
It’s the same for most violent crimes.
It’s not as if there’s something making males specifically become mass shooters, if it’s anything like that it just applies to violence in general.
Maybe some people forget that most mass shooters (if not practically all with exceptions counted in single digits) are men and most victims are women.
There is a lot to be said about the gendered direction of the violence (which im not going to do here bc i dont have the time and is off topic) but kids disliking their teacher is quite normal, male and female students alike.
Yet, smh he took a gun with premeditation for her.
It just fits a very clear pattern.
We have the entire timeline.
The child sneaked a gun out of his household, did not touch it for 5h or so and aimed and shot his teacher when they had an altercation.
If he intended to attack a schoolmate it would have happened sooner than 2pm.
It's highly likely it was meant for the teacher, maybe she reprimanded him a lot and he decided to ... well you know, next time she argued with him.
The thought process of taking a gun in secret and take it out to kill someone he was discontent with is extremely abnormal.
The child is not alright mentally.
There are any number of things that could be wrong with him.
His parents bear responsibility for mishandling their weapons, but this kid is not fine.
It doesn't really matter- as an adult you're liable for crimes your kids commit.
I'm guessing at the moment the parents haven't been arrested because this hasn't gone from attempted murder to murder just yet.