My understanding is that immediately after he took power, impeachment proceedings were launched against him by the opposition.
That attempt failed, so they tried again.
That attempt failed, so today would have been the vote on the third attempt to impeach him a year into his first term.
He's a former schoolteacher.
As much as I dislike that he attempted to dissolve congress, I suspect that maybe all involved parties in Peruvian politics are being shady and that their entire congress might be a bit of a shitshow.
Not that I know much about Peru's government, but isn't there a "permanent assembly" that acts as an interim congress?
The (English version) text in Peru's Constitution is: "The President of the Republic has the power to dissolve Congress if it has censured or denied its confidence to two Cabinets.
".
From what I'm reading, and correct me if I'm wrong, this hasn't happened and so the President doesn't have the power to dissolve Congress.
The President can't just dissolve Congress on a whim.
Have the conditions stated in Peru's Constitution happened?
Sounds like the conditions are a divided Congress that's unable to function, which obviously isn't true if they're all agreeing to impeach the President.
On the other hand, a big part of our congress wanted to "impeach" (we don't really have an impeachment in our constitution, but congress can declare the presidency vacant.
There's a discussion if it is constitutional to use that figure as a form of political control) Castillo for stupid reasons.
And not only that, they also put unqualified people in the goverment, passed populist laws, tried to take down a successful educational reform and also a big etcetera.
Castillo won by a thin margin a little over a year and a half ago, and the dumbest (and biggest) part of the right decided that they would accuse him of rigging the election when months prior to the election the dude didn't even show up on the polls.
From his first day he put a lot of unqualified people all over the goverment either as a reward for helping him during the campaign or to move forward his personal interests.
Some of the other things that come to mind: