>	However, Biden’s landmark Inflation Reduction Act includes a rebate of up to $840 for an electric stove or other electric appliances, and up to an $500 to help cover the costs of converting to electric from gas.
>	However, Biden’s landmark Inflation Reduction Act includes a rebate of up to $840 for an electric stove or other electric appliances, and up to an $500 to help cover the costs of converting to electric from gas.
>	If you qualify for the full rebate, you could save $840 on a new electric or induction stove, and up to an additional $500 if you are switching from gas or propane.
That means, depending on the model you go with, you could get a brand new induction or electric stove for as little as just a couple hundred dollars.
I think that gradually phasing in new stoves as electric ones is a good idea.
If you’re going to electrify your oven, might as well do the stove while you’re at it.
Even if you are using gas fired power plants for electricity (which is by no means guaranteed especially as time passes), there would still be the thermodynamic advantages that come from combusting gas on a larger scale.
A long tailpipe, but still a narrower one nonetheless, and those rounding errors will add up over time.
I lived in a deathtrap of a building with horrible ventilation, no insulation (and lath-and-plaster walls), gas space heaters (only source of heat), gas stoves, and gas ovens.
I absolutely hated that oven and avoided using it as much as possible.
Even then, I put fans in the windows to have a continuous supply of fresh air.
Nobody else in the building seemed to be doing that, though.
I shudder to think of the air the other tenants were breathing in there.
Gas ovens definitely need to go.
The real issue is gas stoves and ovens that need to be cleaned and homes with bad ventilation.
Usually older homes.
Your kitchen hood over your stove should be on venting to the outside.
Gas stoves are everywhere, the older an area the more common they are.
The last apartments I've had in Boston were gas, I think one unit maybe doesn't?
They've often been a selling point for people who like to cook as heat control can be a lot better than the older electrics, tossing a wok on the electrics isn't easy and you don't have to worry about whether your own will work.
The ovens often get hotter, with the downside that they have to vent so heat up the kitchen much more.