Yes, they were a big part of normalizing him for a lot of moderate Republicans.
Always thought they were all big buddies, must have missed when they had their falling out.
Not the biggest Morning Joe fan, but when I watched it back then as breakfast time permitted, Trump's call-ins seemed like a regular feature.
I distinctly remember watching Morning Joe normalize Trump in real time during his 2016 campaign.
For better or worse, that show was very influential in shaping mainstream opinions among journalists, elected officials, and other leaders from both parties.
If the Morning Joe crew had treated Trump like the dangerously unqualified clown that he is from the start, I have no doubt that many high-level Republicans would have publicly taken that stance.
But, because Joe and Mika liked Trump, they touted him as a great businessman and a genius strategist who deserved to be taken seriously as a candidate.
By the time they turned on him, the base was fully in line, and every Republican politician knew speaking out against him would be the end of their career.
I really don't give a shit about Morning Joe or any cable news personalities, but no matter what they say now, Joe and Mika played a huge role in Trump's rise.
Who else remembers Joe & Mika letting Trump call in and free-associate with his usual bullshit for twenty minutes at a time, with no pushback whatsoever?
It’s not his show, it’s a shitty ratings-based amalgamation of a failed Republican’s attempted regeneration of the glory days of the 90s, during which he could still see the path to the presidency laid out as clear as fucking day and Newt was still his bestest friend ever right up until he wasn’t.
Joe Scarborough’s a political nonentity who spreads his milquetoast with Miracle Whip and calls it his Extra Spicy Sauce, forever oblivious to the fact that he represents a dying demographic that really truly doesn’t give a shit about the rest of us hence his complete irrelevance to the political process known as modern American politics and the fact that he will never ever be the man he may or may not have been in 1995.