> But doctors at several hospitals in eastern Poland refused to terminate the pregnancy, citing a so-called conscience clause that allows them not to carry out an abortion if they feel it goes against their beliefs.
- introduced strict abortion law that made some doctors afraid to perform it (we had a recent case that pregnant woman died because of septic shock as doctors were postponong abortion to not be sued if they would viilate the law).
I understand that maybe 20 years ago when abortion law where passed, some doctor may felt this way, but we should have said "from now on, if you became a doctor you MUST provide abortion".
Prior to the legislation change, doctors, nurses, the father and the mother could face criminal prosecution if they performed/received an abortion.
The doctors/medical staff could lose their medical licenses and never practice medicine again.
That’s the least bad stuff that happened.
Worse, was that we were leaving people with unwanted kids which leads to familial misery for all involved and in some cases where the pregnancy had failed and abortions were needed to save the life of the mother- we didn’t.
We let them get worse until the body rejected the foetus, or the mother died.
So balance all that needless human tragedy against a doctors conscience and you can see how people choose the practical answer in the end.
Well, it turned out that that was the case but at the time it was hard to say how close it would be in a referendum.
Many people felt that it was very likely to pass but by what margin was the question.
Nobody felt 100% certain though because most people could remember the first pro choice protests in Dublin and that was back in the late 80’s.
It was hard to be certain when we’d been arguing over the same crap for most of our lives.
Divorce and abortion were the two highly controversial topics in Irish politics over the last 35 years.
In Ireland it was Savita Halapanaver’s death that made the public finally say ‘fuck this’ and voted a couple years later to legalise abortion.