Very good point.
Russia's posturing, complaints, and actions seem to be done with the distorted view that they will prevent a scenario that is guaranteed if Russia uses nukes.
Direct conflict isn’t really an option due to MAD, but in countries that are not nuclear powers, all of the major superpowers are involved.
The reason for this is that there has to be a response to any nation using nuclear weapons, or else others will use them in future conflicts.
And since any response from NATO attacking Russia could include them launching the nukes, it is possible that the US might try a decapitation strike to prevent that.
The threat of mutually assured destruction has prevented nuclear exchange so far, so hopefully the threat is still enough this time.
But with Putin facing death if he doesn't use them, he could gamble that NATO won't risk missiles flying.
This is assuming that Putin, a dictator that has been in power for decades, hasn't replaced the key people in the chain of command with loyal sycophants.
Sycophants whose lives would also be at risk if Putin falls.
Very unlikely.
Any use of nuclear weapons would likely trigger a full NATO military response and no rational person in Russia wants that.
Problem is that Putin is increasingly becoming less rational, since failure here will almost certainly lead to his removal; a death sentence for him, his family, and his allies.
If Putin and his allies feel like they have nothing left to lose by gambeling using a nuke or risking the death of themselves and theor families, then there is a chance one will be used.
A full NATO response could be anything from a full economic embargo to direct military action.
Russia has already shown that its air defenses are all but useless with the drone attacks on their airbase recently.
Direct military action could include a full nuclear strike on Russia as well, though unlikely.
If/when Russia attacks a NATO member nation, we will all be at war.
That is just how it is, it is what we all agreed to when forming/joining NATO.
I think it is funny how everyone is assuming they have some kind of control over the situation, when they have none, none at all, and never did.