Aren't conspiracy to commit crime, incitement, and racial hate crimes already illegal?
Do we need separate legislation that specifically focuses on whether those crimes are motivated by abhorrent white supremacy, or can we just better enforce the existing laws?
I'm all for the use of hate speech laws that optimize societal well being while not being repressive - but it's dangerous to make open ended and legally tricky laws that can result in two different outcomes for the same action based on how other people react.
Assuming criminal incitement is already illegal and not the target of this proposal, this bill makes it illegal for someone to say something hateful that otherwise is legally protected speech, if someone else sees or reads it and then goes on to commit a hate crime.
I'm neither white nor conservative, but I think this law sets a very dangerous precedent that criminalizes otherwise legal speech based on what other people go on and do after - especially if it becomes an acceptable legal mechanism to criminalize other speech that happens to be heard by a criminal.
This isn't an argument about hate speech laws, it's an argument about speech that is legal and protected until someone sees it and then happens to commit a crime.
What I'm describing is the criminalization of legally protected speech that is not considered direct incitement.
White supremacists are an easy target because they're despicable, but it's introducing another mechanism to erode free speech in favor of whatever ideology the government advocates at the time.
at least one of whom published material advancing white supremacy, white supremacist ideology, antagonism based on “replacement theory”, or hate speech that vilifies or is otherwise directed against any non-White person or group, and such published material—.
(i) was published on a social media platform or by other means of publication with the likelihood that it would be viewed by persons who are predisposed to engaging in any action in furtherance of a white supremacy inspired hate crime, or who are susceptible to being encouraged to engage in actions in furtherance of a white supremacy inspired hate crime;.