Personally, I think China had no idea how depleted Russia was and now has few good strategic options in terms of managing the relationship.
I actually think that this benefits China because it means that the West has no internal scruples regarding Russia anymore.
Ukraine essentially has ended the Russian threat for the west without a single western (official) casualty.
Every action so far seems to indicate that this is the case, as it has been obvious for the better part of the war that the Russians at best win a piece of Ukraine and are constantly embattled in insurrections and sanctions.
But it was startling because it implied that Putin is using realpolitik as a kind of idealistic tool.
If this IS the case, I can see how Putin might be fighting for his life, but how he may see the overall destiny of the Russian people as more important than his own.
Yeah, this is the reality, China NEEDS a globalized world.
A huge part of its original unrest was this very issue exactly.
And the yellow River is only going to get crazier as the years progress.
That’s the reality of all this shut going on.
Destabilizing regions a la Russia is just a bad idea.
The West has learned this at the cost of huge debt, and now Russia is learning this first hand at the cost of lives.
For China this would be EVEN greater as the blockade of China would be far easier for the US.
Even the victory in Ukraine ,who is now basically now a kind of Israel in Eastern Europe for the US and Latin America for Europe in general, means that Ukrainian Wheat and natural resources are effectively allied to the west.
This is a huge power play for the west, and arguably too early in the climate change cycle for the greening pastures of Russia to matter.
In some ways, China wins because all it has to do is sit back and watch Russia and the West exhaust each other’s power and resources.
In other ways, China is uneasy.
The situation is unpredictable which China hates, and it views the strenhening of western alliances as a huge setback.
A complete collapse of Russia would create opportunities but also a very unstable and dangerous situation on its doorstep.
Overall, I suspect Xi is extremely unhappy with his ally and considers him a barbaric fool.