They refurbish and modernize at Aniston Army Depot for the electronics and systems and the physical hull and turrets at the Lima Tank Plant, but all of the "New" tanks are refurbished hulls - a M1A2SEPv3 started life as a M1.
Poland is setting up a whole logistical base for the Abrams, which is a lot more that just getting hardware in the middle of an active war.
A lot of NATO hardware will be serviced in Poland during this conflict as is.
Still don't think it's a reason to not offer them though.
If it's a net loss for Ukraine, they'll turn it down, right?
Would that cause Putin to lose in Ukraine (probably) and nuke Europe and the US?
I don't know, but it seems like a big risk to me.
If the US gives Abrams tanks to Russia, tanks that previously obliterated forces of Russian/Soviet tanks (used by the Iraqi Republican Guard in the Battle of Medina Ridge, see and ) and will obliterate Russia's current tanks, that significantly changes the balance of power.
If the US sends it's tanks directly to Ukraine, it will be less able to replace European tanks and European countries will be less inclined to send so many of their own tanks to Ukraine because they will not be as needed and US replacements will be less available.
In this case, Europe keeps it's European tank manufacturing and does not become dependent on US export tanks, which is bad for the US.
Of course, cheap American tanks right now are more appealing replacements than full price German tanks later in the future, so countries might not be willing to make such agreements for replacements, so Germany keeps holding out on allowing exports to Ukraine.
The delay in getting modern tanks in Ukraine is ultimately caused by American undercutting of the German tank industry and America's refusal to send the tanks it wants to replace European tanks with straight to Ukraine.
However, Germany is taking most of the heat as European nations apply pressure on Germany to allow them to export their German made tanks to Ukraine.
Germany lacks the manufacture capability to quickly replace the tanks of European nations who send their tanks to Ukraine.
Ideally, Germany might want to secure export agreements with countries giving away their tanks to ensure they are replaced with more German made tanks.
That isn't just a business thing, it's a European security thing.