I hate to say this and I'm no expert so take what I say with a grain of salt but I think Russia's campaign is doing better than it would seem.
The upside that I see is that Russia’s military is in a bad state and may take a while before they can ready another incursion on another country.
And if the sanctions stay in place, it will slow down Russia even more from acquiring advanced weaponry and missiles.
But even if Europe start buying Russian oil again, I think the landscape is forever changed and the amount of oil and gas that Europe will import will be much lower than what it used to be.
Last upside I guess is that this invasion is speeding Europe towards renewable energy and away from Russian energy dependency.
But what I also fear is that by cutting off the economic ties between US/Europe and Russia it will only mean that a larger war will become more likely later down the road.
But this means that if Russia's trade strenh and conventional military were sufficiently crippled, it could lose its world power status, nukes or no.
Sanctions could easily do both, especially in the long term.
Russia is (or at least was) a world power because of its trade ties and its willingness to send its conventional military (under plausible deniability of the Wagner Group) overseas, not because of nukes.
Pakistan, which also has nukes and ICBMs, cannot lay claim to the same status because its economic and military influence are regional at best.
Having nukes is useful offensively only if you also have a huge, competent, well-equipped conventional military.
This lets you attack without having to worry overmuch about defense, because you'd retaliate with nukes.
This is why Ukraine has not invaded Russian territory (their real territory, not the part of Ukraine that Russia claims is theirs).
Russia began moving it troops to the Ukrainian border about this time last year.
Since then every single day its posts about how Russia is having setbacks and how Ukraine will be invading Moscow next month.
But it's just not realistic.
The winter is likely going to freeze the war.