I want to add for all the "they'll only pass one bill crowd" beyond the simple majority angle, they need unanimous consent to bypass procedure and even get these bills to the floor for a vote before the strike deadline.
Bernie has said he will block without support for the 7 days.
So it looks like its going to be either both bills or nothing.
It sucks.
I thought for sure he was going to bargain the 7 days down to 4 and hold the bills hostage until he got the votes.
He had a major opportunity to make a stand, but perhaps I just read too much into it.
In the end he did exactly what he said he'd do and nothing more.
At the end of the day tho this isn't the craziest unions bust ever, only 4 out of the 12 unions didn't agree to the terms and the biggest of those 4 just barely voted against agreeing.
A rail strike will cost a lot of working people money, that burden shouldn't fall on the workers compromising some basic benefits they should already have when these companies are flush with cash.
I am disappointed.
I'll still take a democrat over a republican any day of the week when it comes to workers rights.
We need better but thats the best we have.
Bernie has already said he's a no without the 7 days.
Right now he can sink this whole thing with a no at unanimous consent, they can't pass either bill before the strike without bypassing procedure.
There's GOP support for the 7 day and I imagine Bernie is getting that in line before he doesn't object to the UC.
But ya know....go off.
No you really don't understand.
The senate cannot vote on either Bill, EITHER BILL, in time to beat the strike deadline without a UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
Which Bernie will oppose unless both have the votes to pass.
That article is about passing the bill in the house not the senate.
The unions are getting more than they had bargained for, rightfully so, assuming both bills pass the Senate.
As long as to a simply majority vote, then there only need to be 51 Senators needed to pass both the agreement and the amendment.
If even one Senator objects, then a filibuster threshold of 60 Senators will be needed to vote in favor for either.
and telling them to vote in favor of the amendment, or to at least allow a simple majority vote on the matter.
But the reality is those approvals are based on a majority vote of each union.
So it's not so straightforward as saying that one bill supports what 63% of the Union wanted and the other Bill supports with the remaining 37% wanted.