This could be an utterly terrible pandemic, potentially much more deadly than covid.
But we know how to make vaccines against influenza, and we have antiviral drugs already stockpiled for just such a pandemic.
Normal influenza is less contagious than covid, although we don't know how contagious a novel strain may be.
Overall, we have a 12-18 month head start on the medical response to this, compared to 2020 and covid-19.
The odds of H5N1 mutating to spread among mammals are known to be high, because influenza variants are regularly exchanged among species across the globe.
This process has been directly observed since the 1960s, and reconstructed using samples saved from earlier.
Migratory waterfowl are the global vector, and traditional farms in southeast Asia where domestic ducks are kept in proximity with pigs is the most common transition point.
With this particular variant, sea lions in South America and a mink farm in Europe have seen mammal to mammal spread.
It will probably mutate and adapt to spread among mammals, and it probably will happen in some other animal first.
I think it is because it's a diverse collection of mammals infected from this particular strain.
It hasn't been confirmed, but it's looking likely that it is the case.
Sea lion, seals, bears, mink, foxes, dogs, cats, and more.
That is a divergence from previous outbreaks of H5N1.
There have been a little over 800+ cases of H5N1 since the early 2000's.
Roughly 50% of which died from the virus.
Most known cases have resulted from interacting with sick animals.
The number of mammals affected en masse is alarming enough, but this outbreak has now infected quite a few people, too.
All of which to this point had contact with birds.
It's not time to panic by any means, but it's comforting to know that the proper agencies are preparing for the possibility of an H5N1 epidemic or pandemic.
I'm not jumping to conclusions.
It may take a decade to mutate, or not at all.
If it does though, you can bet your bottom dollar, its going to get UGLY.