This would have been pretty shortly after 9/11.
The American public would have held flag waving parades for Bush no matter who he bombed as long as he was bombing SOMEONE.
I think Iraq, a country that had basically zero to do with 9/11, is all the evidence anyone needs of that.
The US needed a war and it was seeking volunteers.
With India taking equipment from Russia the US wants to prop up Pakistan to maintain parity, this is something the US has been doing with Pakistan for decades, which is why they had their fleet of F16s in the first place.
Neither of those countries give a shit about what the US and Russia are doing anywhere else, but the US (and most of the world) wants them to remain at a stalemate to the extent possible because and India/Pakistan/China conflict is bad news for everyone.
It doesn't really show that at all, those countries are more so neutral or supporting Russia to spite the West for its colonization and imperialism of their countries in the past, American influence is just as strong as its ever been especially now that the world sees how weak Russia really is, when you say multi-polar do you mean China?
Because it's doubtful they can challenge the US hegemony in any significant way with all the internal problems they face now.
The moment the US actually abuses their hegemon status is the moment the US experiences severe pushback and loss of soft power.
We're in our position currently because large parts of the world, namely other western countries, prefer us to China or Russia (and USSR during the cold war).
Acting overtly with aggression will quickly establish a multipolar world as nations move to ensure their own security instead of relying on us.
Yep, much of the global support for the US comes from the very fact that they prefer soft power to military aggression.
If they were just threatening everyone with bombs all the time, other countries would band together and focus on taking them out first.
China has got to where it is today by basically emulating that model for the last 30 years.
Xi is actually costing them a lot of soft power by his recent shift to more authoritarian and military aligned policies.