I do these types of cases for a living.
If the racial issue hadn't brought this to the forefront, this case would otherwise have been legal specialist blogs and scotusblog as an interesting side note.
Rather, what has happened with that case is that the conservative legal establishment has latched on to a case that involves an otherwise very obscure area of law, and tried to co-opt it into their greater theme.
The state of Texas removed a newborn child from her mother because the mother had a serious problem with methamphetamine.
Under the law, the mother has a certain amount of time to try to get herself clean and get the child back.
It's about a year.
If she fails, the laws require the court to look for another permanent place for the child to live.
In this case the child was placed in a foster home and lived there for the first year of her life.
Then the court started talking about alternate permanent places for the child to live and the child's Aunt from Arizona came forward and said she wanted the child.
The foster parents said, no we want to adopt this child and we think it's best for the child to stay with us.
They hired a lawyer and filed a petition to adopt the child.
I was a foster parent who went on to adopt our foster daughter.
(For reference, our daughter was sexually molested(almost daily) by her grandfather starting at 18 months.
)When she came into our care (aged 5) she had already had 6 placements where the other foster families were unable to manage her behaviors.
After a year in our care the state ended parental rights and we where finally able to apply for the adoption.
As the court date approached we found out her bio-dad and a small of Native American which could prevent the adoption from going through.
What that would mean is basically she would forever be a foster child unless a member of her dad's tribe wanted to step forward to claim her.
To us this was an outrage.
Where was the tribe all this time?
Why couldn't one of their member offer this poor child a home?
In the end we were able to work it out with the courts and the tribe but it could have just as easily gone the other way.