If by "handling" you mean the presence of documents with classification markings at an unauthorized location, of course both handlings were improper.
If by "handling" you mean how Biden and Trump reacted to the presence of documents at an unauthorized location, Biden did handle it properly, whereas Trump's handling was totally improper.
Also according to the last several months of GOP and mainstream media rhetoric about Trump's documents, Biden did nothing wrong.
We're supposed to believe that Trump can declassify anything at will and still possess documents even when he's no longer the President, but Biden as the current President cannot?
The hypocritical part comes from when Biden was talking about Trump's classified documents situation when he was asked by a reporter what he thought of the pictures coming out showing classified documents on the floor at Trump's home and he said: " "How that could possibly happen, how anyone could be that irresponsible.
And I thought what data was in there that may compromise sources and methods.
By that, I mean, names of people who helped or et cetera.
And it's just totally irresponsible.
".
It is the case that the documents weren't found like that.
The investigators said that.
It's funny because when that picture came out Trump immediately went out and started complaining that the FBI is taking pictures of the documents thrown around the floor to make it look like that is how he kept them.
Then people in the media/analysts were saying "That isn't why the FBI takes pictures like that, they take pictures like this for every investigation.
It's standard procedure.
Nobody thinks that the documents were found like that.
You're trying to create a false narrative to make it seem like the FBI is out to get you and staging photos in a way that isn't consistent with normal practice."
But, then, as it turns out, there really were people who thought the documents were just laying around the bedroom floor and Trump is just presumably walking all over them every morning when he gets out of bed.