Speaking from the edge of retirement.... not quite there.
I never imagined how I would survive or get the point where I had money in the bank.But I am a reliable voter so I land in a group that gets what it wants more often.
But it is all at risk with a single adverse health incident.
As it is all at risk for you too.
Your financial future could be wiped out... single payer universal health care works!
Ask yourself this (assuming you have ever met a Canadian)... why do those guys seems so calm?
Single payer universal health care is, and always has been, the only answer.
Otherwise sane people who see most things clearly stumble on this.
There should be no profit in health care.
And note, I am currently employed in the industry (funny story how that accidentally happened) and would celebrate losing my job to it's fucking abolition.
Thanks for the post Elise and keep being you!
.
So, if you are younger and vote, good for you.
If you are too jaded and cynical to vote you are getting what you deserve.
And if you do vote, vote single payer.
Be a one issue voter.
It will be good for all of us.
This is good news.
It's just too bad that due to the omnibus bill that broke the link between the public health emergency and extended health coverage.
I don't disagree about the reason republicans agreed to expand healthcare during the pandemic.
I know they wouldn't agree to do it otherwise.
However, unless you're trying to argue that the ACA subsidies are sufficient to provide everyone with healthcare after they are booted from Medicaid (in which case, you would be very wrong), it's irrelevant to my point.
The article I linked states that approximately 6 million people that qualify for Medicaid are going to lose their coverage over this, and you're telling me it's not necessary.
What a joke.
Even before COVID, millions were going without any coverage at all, let alone adequate coverage.
Some people are paying thousands of dollars per month for their premiums.
The healthcare system is a joke.
We need to expand health coverage, not cut it.
Pandemic or no pandemic.