It's really been a boon of intelligence dealing with Russia's modified Soviet designed wepaons, for how to deal with China and it's modified Soviet designed weapons.
Also it's been a legit wakeup call on small/cheap drone usage in actual combat.
Before it was a wargaming debate.
Now have hard data.
Yeah, we know Russia EW is awful.
😀 But even so, presuming their anti drone stuff works at all, there isn't enough to knock out all the drones getting used directly over their troops, spotting for artillery.
I question if even NATO has enough to deal with drones across a very wide theater of operations like this.
It's interesting how effective drones can be because everywhere can't be guarded properly against that threat - yet.
Drones were considered too difficult to effectively use in combat (no..
seriously.)
the drones we invented are wildly expensive, prohibitively so, and it was assumed against a legit state like Russia they would have tech to wipe out drones with ease.
Our nano drones are a good example of this.
They’re stupidly expensive, they use a controller straight from 1998, their signal is unreliable, the info they provide troops is minuscule in the grand scheme of things.
Our suicide drones are not that effective for their price, switchblades for instance the 300 is weak AF and cost over $6k per craft for a grenade about as powerful as a VOG.
It was assumed special forces or whatever could use these to target individuals, but the idea of entire drone units, that’s too expensive.
Then came Ukraine.
They’re hunting Russians and slaughtering them every day with a reusable $700 DJI drone with a rigged up release pin and a $50 grenade.
It can drop a bomb and go home.
It can head back out a few minutes later.
It can loiter in the air and provide real time 4K feeds.
It terrorizes soldiers in trenches .. and you can buy them in bulk on Amazon.
That’s truly revolutionary.
It completely changes things.
Every movement on the battlefield is being watched.
They don’t need expensive sats, obvs planes or risky positioning for intel.
They just need a cheap ass Chinese drone and they can wreck havoc on a world power.
This isnt even a new technology, Ukraine is just the first to say hey, why can’t we just strap a cheap bomb to this?
Boom.
Changes everything.
Every army in the world, every insurgency, every terror organization, is frantically taking notes on what Ukraine has done with drones.