"lukashenko, you lazy son of a bitch you see this rocket right here?
it would be a shame if it gets lost on it's way to kyiv and accidently hits your house instead now send off your troops and bring me the head of zelenskyy!
".
Yep.
Amazingly still less times than than the Kremlin has threatened to use nuclear weapons, and one has to imagine Colonel Luka is sweating bullets right now... does he keep putin happy or risk overthrow by the Belarusians?
exactly my thought - keep them guessing, keep some of the UA troops tied up just in case - Russia already has an enormous front open - unless they think they can push through to Kiev, why bother?
Like I said, they pose a bigger threat, and do a better job, at keeping Ukrainian units near Belarus by sitting there threatening an invasion.
If they attack, they will get wiped out and will no longer keep those Ukrainian units away from the frontlines in the east and south.
Did you even read the article you linked?
It's a paper unit that will finally materialize after years of non-existence.
It has no real coherent combat capabilities.
It's literally another conscript formation.
The core is also made up of Belarusians, who are already severely undermanned in their own military.
They have no logical motive or ability to.
If they are stupid enough to try it, it would be a categorically horrible decision.
This is all just for show so that Ukraine can't send all its units to the front.
Relax everyone.
There's little chance Belarus would invade Ukraine.
Their military is too small and weak to make a real dent.
Also, there is no clear viable axis of advance for any ground attacks.
Not to mention that most Belarusians don't want to fight a war against Ukraine.
In fact, many of them are against the war in general and sabotaged railways to hamper the Russian supply movements early in the war.
Many Belarusians actually volunteered to fight for Ukraine and are there fighting right now.
Belarus is doing its job by simply keeping the Ukrainians stationed near their border.
It costs nothing and achieves the same results.