Erdogan is a Machiavellian in the morally neutral kind of way.
I think he sees himself as a moral leader in an immoral world, who must play world powers against each-other or else they will play him.
And there's a certain truth to that.
I give Erdogan a lot of credit for opposing Assad early and taking in so many Syrian refugees, despite backlash from some Turkish people and a horrible lack of support from the rest of the world.
In that situation you can see Erdogan's righteous bitterness.
Assad is a mass murderer, running one of the most brutal regimes in history, and I think Erdogan expected (and was led to believe to an extent) that the world was going to act decisively to protect the Syrian people, and either take out Assad or neuter his ability to wage oppression.
Obama in particular chickened out in a huge way and decided it wasn't his problem.
Erdogan was left hanging, having firmly denounced Assad and put a lot of plans into motion in anticipation of the Assad regime's fall.
All of Erdogan's actions in Syria, and beyond, like his playing Putin vs. the West, are the result of Erdogan deciding, "You fucked me over.
Fine, I'll take care of Turkish interests in any way possible, screw your sensibilities.
".
But it's not really about that is it?
It's more about Erdogans clear stance towards it.
It's not like you can take that for granted from a authoritarian conservative leader.
Ah yes because you only speak about things you are an expert in?
As long as people don't claim to be an expert they aren't why do you even care if they speak about things.
It's not like what was said was wrong, Erdogan is authoritarian, no misinformation in there.
Calling Erdogan the "Trump of Turkiye" is dangerous for a number of reasons, not in the least because Erdogan is much smarter than Trump.
He has always been very sly and thoughtful when it comes to Turkey's role on the international stage, careful to do enough to stay in the good graces of everyone, and in doing so, giving himself more wiggle room with his domestic policies despite how they may be perceived, by other members of NATO for example.