"Normally, the camerlengo has the role of officially confirming the pope's death, traditionally by tapping his head three times with a small silver hammer and calling out his name.
".
Yep.
I might be wrong, but this is what I’ve seen and experienced in life.
It’s a real case-by-case thing, moment by moment.
Which kind of makes sense to me, because everyone is different, every situation is different, and you just can’t know everything that’s going on.
There are stories of Christians in the early church going into a city and then leaving it with all of the inhabitants healed, there are also stories of them going to a place and God tells them to turn around and leave without doing anything.
This particular passage you’re quoting just predicts that these things will be done, it doesn’t say when and where it will be done, so you can either read it as a promise that it will happen all the time, or that it will be a case by case thing.
I haven’t seen it happen all the time, but I have seen it happen.
Either explanation makes sense if you haven’t seen a miraculous healing happen.
Like I said, I have.
Several times.
And I know a few dozen others who have seen or been the conduit for these things, so the qualifier would seem to make sense.
Look, I get it if you don’t believe that.
I’m not asking you for anything, I’m not even asking you to believe me; I could be nuts, after all.
Or I could just be an uneducated, superstitious hick without the capability to reason out the scientific causes of a “miracle”.
Whatever man, you do you.
That doesn’t say that everyone who lives a Christian life will be healthy, does it?
In fact, it simply says that people will be healed in the name of Jesus, and not “all” people at that.
This is true, in my experience.
And then there is John 15:20 where Jesus himself explicitly promises that Christians will be persecuted and experience suffering, 2Timothy 3:12 where Paul says that anyone wishing to follow Jesus will experience persecution and suffering, Paul’s experiences as a missionary is a laundry list of beatings, near death experiences, shipwrecks, and imprisonment (2Corinthians 11:23-29) and all the other Apostles, with the exception of John, suffered horrible executions.
Clearly, none of those men felt that they had been promised a healthy, wealthy life; if they had, they wouldn’t have stayed the course and died the way they did.
If that’s what happened to the fathers of the church, how could we expect that life would be better for us?
I don’t know the answer to that.
I kind of feel like I know what you’ll say, and that’s all fine.
But out of curiosity, if I had a satisfactory metaphysical answer to the question, what would you say?
Just for the sake of argument, let’s pretend I could answer every question or intellectual issue you have for the existence of God, what would your response be?
Hardly a rigorous examination of the existence of God.
After all, the God we worship was brutally murdered.
If He can die a violent death, then it doesn’t really stand to reason that his followers would be promised perfect health and a peaceful death in their sleep, does it?
However death finds you when it shows up, it doesn’t really matter; death is, after all, only the beginning.