I think you are wrong about Garland.
He's careful, but I don't believe he appointed a special prosecutor just to undercut him later.
If Smith recommends charges and Garland refuses, that will be made public.
I think Garland still has to sign off.
I'm basing that on what Neal Katyal has said.
He could be wrong, but he helped write the Special Counsel regulations, so my hope is that he knows what he's talking about.
I can speak to it.
I obviously have great, great respect for the Attorney General.
I just don't think that if it is based on appearances, that this is likely to actually reduce any of the criticism that he's likely to face because under the Special Counsel regulations, if this special counsel Jack Smith does call for an indictment, who has to sign off on it?
I think there will be charges in the stolen documents case and soon.
And it's looking more and more like there will be a financial crime charges related to Jan 6.
Whether they can pin the seditious conspiracy on Trump himself is a big question mark.
Holy fack, enough of these posts “ we think maybe possibly for sure in the future maybe we will charge trump “.
The guy literally called for the constitution to be removed and tried to overthrow the us government,,,,, but sure MAYBE works for me I guess ?
And even if he’s an ignorant dummy (that’s honestly how people defend it “it wasn’t a serious coup!
It was just shits and giggles” etc.
), even if we give that benefit of the doubt - the best case scenario is it was still gross negligence.
If you’re operating a crane and do something incredibly negligent that kills a bunch of people then you get in serious trouble.
Even if Trump destroyed democracy by accident it’s still worthy of treason because if you’re president you should respect the influence you have on people.
It’s on you as president to be well informed of the facts that matter most and not promote dangerous lies.
It’s all fun and games until people are dead and democracy in ruins.
Do him and his goons seem like the type of people that would re-evaluate the situation and come back from the brink?
Fuck no.
They’d have run with it as far as it took them.
Even if Trump was under some delusion that his win was actually stolen then it’s still no excuse.
There are ways of addressing that without completely disregarding all democratic institutions.
We put murderers away who fall in with cults and believe they’re doing good things as having reckless delusions does not absolve one of wrong-doing.
It might garner a little sympathy and understanding but not enough to wipe their hands clean.
I know I’m preaching to the choir but I just don’t buy the “but he didn’t really know what he’s doing and he didn’t directly promote violence” line.
It’s a crock of shit… it’s like their bar is so low for their expectations of Trump they allow even more reckless behaviour.
It doesn’t make sense.