MTG being speaker depends on members of congress, nothing regular people can do about it either way for another two years.
Besides the same problems McCarthy has to deal with she'd have to as well.
That is if even a handful of Republican Congress members don't want her to be speaker, she isn't going to be speaker.
And I'd guess there'd be more than a handful that wouldn't want to be associated with her given how poorly the Trump style of politics did in the last election.
True, but I highly doubt they would break the precedent of choosing a congressman to be the speaker for someone like Liz Cheney.
We've never had a speaker who wasn't a member of congress so why would the GOP choose Liz Cheney given she lost her race?
Cheney lost her re-election prior and come the new term, she will not be a representative anymore.
However, speaker rules don’t specify that it has to be an elected representative so she could be speaker, but that won’t happen at all.
If sufficient dissenting votes do get cast for the first ballot to fail, there isn't a specific guidebook to what to do next, other than that the House can't conduct any other business until they successfully elect a Speaker.
The rare bit is simply that enough elected representatives of the next Congress's majority party (Republicans) are saying they won't vote for their party's nominee to put the expected outcome of the Speaker election in jeopardy.
The Democrats have nothing to do with causing that situation since the Republicans won an absolute majority of representatives in the election.
The system isn't designed for political parties, even though they came into existence almost immediately.
The modern practice is that, a few weeks after each congressional election, the newly elected (or re-elected) set of representatives of each political party conduct party-internal elections to pick that party's nominee for Speaker.
Then, on the first day of the new Congress (January 3), every member of that party votes for that party's nominee for Speaker.
if one party has a majority and all members vote for the nominee that won the party-internal election, they'll win, which is the usual outcome.
But the minority party does routinely vote for their own candidate on the floor of the House, and that's been true throughout US history no matter which party is in control.
The actual threshold for electing a Speaker is an absolute majority of those representatives present and voting when the election is held.
Not plurality, absolute majority, excluding absences and explicit abstentions.
That talking head on fox news is either confused about how the system works or disingenuously spouting propaganda.
Of course the Democrats chose Pelosi when she was their nominee and they had the majority.
Same way it always works.