If I had to guess it seems like the US would be the most likely suspect.
Frankly after Biden said we had the capability I just assumed most people thought we did it.
And I didn't understand why that even was a controversial position.
Attacking Ukraine and then the largest western military not blowing up your pipeline seems like a bad strategy.
Can you ELI5?
My whole life I was told that international trade reduced the desire to go to war.
So Russia cutting off a main export of a highly inelastic good to Germany seems like the opposite of what one would do if they wanted Germany to stay out of war with them.
Most likely is Russians wanted to cut off NG to Germany to keep Germany and EU out of the Ukraine war but not do it overtly by a cutoff so as not to arouse German nationalism.
Russians blow it up in way that makes it easily repaired.
They send Germany and EU a message by hopefully creating an energy crisis.
Keep in mind that Germany and the rest of Europe has learned the dangers of being solely dependent on a single trading partner for critical energy supplies.
From their perspective, there is still some risk in depending solely on the USA for their natural gas supply even though we are closer strategic allies (since that can change over time).
The ideal outcome would have been to continue to diversify their network of natural gas suppliers, which could include a theoretically reformed post-war Russia.
So year it means natural gas demand and supply were elastic and Germany and EU were able to cut demand and move to other suppliers from Middle East, thwarting Russia's aims in blowing up the pipeline.
\- Germany and other countries were already moving their dependence for Russian gas to other sources, with a plan to fully cut them off even if the pipeline weren't destroyed.
Nord Stream 2 was postponed indefinitely.
The cards had already been set thanks to the biggest fucking moron on the planet right now.
There was very little benefit for the US to end the supply early.
Let's not forget that Russia was already playing footsie with the supply due to a part in Canada that was only recently returned.