Yeah exactly.
Whenever Mexico is brought up Americans just love to talk about cartels without knowing what the fuck they’re even talking about.
Next tell us about how the US military should go in and interfere with cartels.
My concern for the need of a joint military intervention is due to the violent nature of the cartels and the corruption that have within the government.
The amount of humanity they are willing to abandon to abhorrent acts such as kidnapping or murdering a school bus of kids indicates they are willing to do whatever they see as necessary to keep their power and influence.
They are a capable set of organizations, they would put a lot of effort in making up the lost profit from no drug money and I believe they have the power & willingness to be violent to see that through.
It is best to weaken them as much as possible, but their outright removal is much more desirable.
And thus my comments of internal corruption preventing a joint nation operation.
It's unlikely to happen, and IMO it's unlikely the cartels will ever peacefully cease their operations.
So the situation continues.
Diversify like they have been doing?
Extortion, kidnapping, and other business ventures can supplement them even if the entire world decriminalized drugs.
It's foolish to think the cartels would simply keel over enough from the lack of drug money, they'd get their money in other ways.
I'm not against drug decriminalization and whatever benefits it may bring would be behooving to explore.
But I'm not convinced that that alone would destabalize the cartels to the point of collapse.
People don't give up power that easily and they have power over much aside from the drug trade.
To make cartels a thing of the past would require much more than simply decriminalizing drugs.
Diminishing the cartels is only one of the many benefits of decriminalizing drugs but you seem to agree with me so I won't expound on that.
I'm just saying we need to do this any way and we will deal with whatever is left over.