Very interesting that everybody wants to mention the BRI, but fail to acknowledge that Africa and China have had good relations since the sixties due to being labeled as developing countries together by NATO / UN.
Thing is that they’re not restricting their capital.
They have a larger middle class than the US and have pulled more of their citizens (both gross and percentage) out of poverty than the US too.
Of course there’s the whole Taiwan argument and the freedom of speech argument.
But that’s kinda them playing the long game just how you said.
Because, yeah you’re right, USSR fucked up hard.
The two pieces of legislation that killed the USSR was parastroika and glasnost (sorry if I spelled those wrong I’m on mobile).
China basically has taken a lesson from USSRs failing and says “oh.
So the free market thing worked for them but as soon as they got liberal with their freedom of speech the whole thing crumbled” and now it’s the law that you’re not allowed to neither endorse nor criticize the government there.
It’s not like this is some recent manipulative IR strategy that China has committed to.
China has been for close to 70 years now been building relations with African countries.
Also, I am an American patriot and served in our armed forces.
I can’t stand Russia.
That being said, I study political science and just because we value certain things in America doesn’t mean that we ought to project our values on to how we view the rest of the world.
Other countries can and do function really well without the western liberal regime type.
China does well for itself by all comparative measures, honestly.
Does it match what we value here in the US?
Well… no.
Should it have to?
Also no.
Nope.
Colonialism ended 60 years ago and growth has been pretty much stagnant since then.
Which countries are doing "very well"...?
Botswana, maybe Equatorial Guinea, we're talking about a few small nations with resources that still have the majority of the populace living in severe poverty.