I thought that Trump's lawyers (and the people he nominated as judges) were bad when they didn't even have a "watched a couple episodes of Law & Order" level of legal education.
But my favourite part was when the judge explained to Trump’s lawyers the difference between libel and slander, cause they didn’t get it right….
It is not odd how no one has came forth with a lawsuit against Clinton like there was against Trump?
I mean, we hear about lawsuits being field all the time that are damaging to someone’s reputation only for the suit to be dropped later without much fanfare.
No one can come forward to even present the look of a civil suit against Clinton?
But sure… let’s look into Clinton while ignoring the reality of the situation.
And I swear… you will say something about how the Clinton’s and their allies paid off the victims is just fucking stupid because you are then admitting that Trump and his allies didn’t think of paying off his victims in relation to Epstein.
Or you could say how the Republican/conservatives didn’t want to dig into it more than that because it would expose their own, WHICH MAKES IT FUCKING WORSE!
With the huge rage boner that the Republicans have on Clinton, you’d figure they’re find something on him in regards to Epstein right?
Are you telling me that in all of the years that the Republicans and enemies of the Clintons have been trying to take down the Clintons, that not one accusation has came out aside from that picture of Clinton getting a shoulder rub in, I believe, an airport?
It's just... frustrating to see this be brought up time and time again, Clinton traveling with Epstein because if there was anything of worth to investigate, you are damn sure the Republicans and conservatives would have found it.
And it's always fucking interesting that this get brought up when a Clinton is doing something political, or as a "whataboutism" when it comes to Trump, but no one seems to want to investigate.
Especially the lack of push to investigate from those who bring it up the most in political circles.