Second, Russia wasn't on its own during WW2, not even close.
They had several other countries keeping Germany distracted with a western front, and they were receiving lend lease from the States, millions of people aren't much use if you can't arm or feed them.
Plus they had the population of other Soviet states to draw from.
Belarus and Ukraine sacrificed millions to stop the Germans from reaching Moscow.
For starters, the USSR was on the defensive and they had no choice but to fight cause the alternative would've been surrending the country to the Germans.
Here, Russia is attacking which means the "soldiers" could simply stop fighting and go home.
Ever since fall of last year, Putin's message was "we want to stop the war along currently held borders."
This stance allows him to:
If Putin loses these borders, his strategy will no longer work, since he will no longer be able to pretend that the ball is not in his court.
He would have to either accept defeat (something that will likely cost him his power, or worse), or change his message to once again go from a faux-defensive war to an openly offensive one, with an unclear end and many future casualties.
After a year of disasters and no evidence of things improving in the short or even medium term, Putin cannot be sure Russians are eager to once again go on the offensive, one which they now know will be long, bloody, and heavily rely on conscripts that have zero desire to be there (his professional army having been mauled within the first year.
).
2.
Play the victim who "only wants peace" to the world community, and blame the West for the continued "escalation.
".
Russia is probing the waters with smaller (although still sizeable) offensives such as under Vuhledar.
Based on the disastrous results, they're likely to call off their larger offensives, lest they bog down, get wrecked, and allow a massive Ukrainian counteroffensive (either in April or even earlier.)
Russia can't afford another strategic defeat like in Kharkiv last year, not because of a lack of manpower, but because it's already on shaky ground morale wise, and continued defeats could spell doom for Putin's ability to continue rallying his nation to fight.