Kind of disagree on your take there.
IMO religion is the vehicle for hate in this instance, so, the reason homophobia exists is due to religion.
I think most religious people who abhor queer people would still feel that way even if they weren't religious or theists.
They'd just find a different excuse or justification.
For most of them it really boils down to toxic masculinity and patriarchal mindsets about gender, sexuality and sexual intercourse.
That's why it appeals to many nonreligious governments in the 19th and 20th century as well, and religious conservatives are ultimately unconcerned with whether or not their holy texts actually condemn homosexuality or not.
Their repulsion to it runs deeper than "God said", which is their subterfuge.
It comes from a deep internal "Ewwwwww!
>. "
Modern Psychology and Neuroscience shows the Conservative mind is far more preoccupied with disgust and decontamination than the Liberal or Progressive mind.
Which is also consistent with an analysis of Conservative political themes and rhetoric.
Heavy emphasis on grime, dirt, uncleanliness, contamination, unnaturalness, and error.
In this case, this falls under Social Conservatism.
The Bolshevist regimes of the 20th century tended to be quite socially conservative despite being nominally Leftist economically and geopolitically.
Not arguing whether or not Christianity is a good or bad thing, but attributing the fall of Rome to Christianity would leave the huge question of why it spread so successfully within other nearby civilizations which went on to exponentially grow into large empires for centuries afterward.
Essentially Rome had to integrate and pacify immigrating people’s quickly to maintain stability (Christianity didn’t help with that), Byzantium did not have to rely on external integration as much.
Byzantium was smaller and more easily organized, Rome relied on its ability to integrate foreign populations as a way to keep unrest low, allowing the majority of its troops to be diverted to expansion and border patrol rather than suppression of dissent within its borders.
As Byzantium was smaller and more easily administrated, it could absorb large masses of people without having to quickly integrate them like Rome while still having the troops to defend itself.
Large numbers of foreigners are a security risk, but manageable in the right circumstances, Byzantium could, Rome couldn’t.