China "That's literally the same thing you have done since 1945 and it hasn't worked since the 1980's!
During my military experience we just try to bully smaller countries and when that fails we react disportionaly and cry about how unfair it is that we don't get what we want.
And we make threats, a lot of threats.
Maybe even kidnap some foreign nations and ransom.....I mean discover they are spies.
".
This is the truth.
Lived there many years and am in regular contact with friends and family.
I can think of two times in the last year people mentioned the tensions or propaganda about war.
Most of the conversations other than checking in to see how everyone is, revolves around the shit economy, zero COVID and now COVID surge, things like that.
The govt uses the Taiwan issue to distract and try to show strenh in at least one sector, because as of right now, everything else there looks really grim.
My wife is Chinese, and when we were living over there, she saw a brief Douyin (TikTok) video about the B-2 stealth bomber.
It was meant as a sort of "this is why we must work harder Struggle to win against America" piece, but she was shocked.
"Wait, this is a real plane?"
"Yes."
"Oh my god, I can't believe it" She looked it up online and was like, "they made this 30 years ago?
That's unbelievable, China has nothing at all like this even now" "This must be the alien technology" "America's military really is the best" Etc.
She was so amazed that for a couple weeks, she talked to all her family and friends about it 🤣 which is hilarious because she's not at all an aviation or military buff - she's into fashion and cute stuff.
I met a good number of young guys who were into military stuff, just like in the US - it's a biproduct of growing up in a militaristic nation.
Most of them were fairly reverent of the US military and respected its capabilities and history (which is available in China if you care to look for it), even if they viewed it as an adversary.
War would be bad for the entire planet but, as someone not from the US, it’s genuinely comical to me that China thinks it can engage the US in open war and win.
I think this is shortsighted; in a war with China, the only reason fighting would happen near the mainland would be because the USN expects to win it handedly.
Blockades thousands of miles away from any Chinese land, like in the strait of Malacca, would cripple their ability to fight via a lack of fuel, as well as their economy as a whole.
Taiwan is, of course, an important piece of land to consider, however I am unconvinced that the PRC could take it in a timely manner even if the USN refused any major engagements in nearby waters.
This is a good thing to remember.
Ultimately, the biggest thing that has kept Ukraine free has been the willingness of its people to fight.
Russia has about five times the militarily-fit population as Ukraine, but those numbers only matter if mobilization rates are similar.
I would be willing to bet that Russia expected that Ukraine would get American guns (they have first hand experience with that right from their own history after all), but I doubt very much that they ever expected the Ukrainian population would participate in a 18 - 60 year-old male draft.
The fact that so many Ukrainians were willing to fight is the biggest reason why they are still there today.