It’s weird how concentrated efforts by all the worlds governments might actually affect the climate.
Of course we didn’t need to change as many things as we do with climate change, but it still proves that it can be done, and that climate nihilism is just as bad as climate denialism.
True true it's like everything else in life morons who don't understand anything will look at this news and mistakenly think their view of climate change being fake were correct.
All the crazy weather issues of recent years are just a weird happenstance.
I wasn't born then so I can only comment on info I can find about it and seems like a small niche community of climate scientists back then used the technology they had at the time to come up with a hypothesis of weather trends.
As with any good hypothesis there were other scientists with counter hypotheses that it was getting warmer and not colder.
As more evidence and real time information was added to the collection the ice age hypothesis didn't hold up compared to global warming.
Today we have even more evidence and advanced technology that lends to it.
As for whether this is just natural weather actions we haven't experienced yet due to the brief period of weather records we have that doesn't seem to be the case.
We can look at tree rings and see the different periods/amounts of rainfall in the tree's lifespan.
We can take arctic core samples that go back 800,000 years.
Everything points to humans affecting climate in a serious way.
This kinda proves that we have no effect on the climate.
We haven’t changed shit, also China has actually been pumping out more co2 then ever, and now this ozone is healing.
Also California where I live is seeing plenty of rain and is cold.
You realize we are coming out of an ice age.
Look at the history of out earth’s temperature like I have.
Yeaaaa... we are going into a HEAT age, once all the ice is gone there will be nothing to cool the planet.
We are coming out of an ice age.
Look at a chart of all the earth’s past ice ages.
It’s hard to find that for some reason, but if you do find one you’ll see we are coming out of an ice age, and it’s not the first time.
The global temperature is going to rise a lot more according to the past estimated temperatures throughout earth’s history.