The thing you have to realize is, the consequences of telling the truth may, and likely reach far beyond the possibility of criminal charges of this investigation.
I’m aware…we’re discussing potential consequences of lying to the grand jury and how someone would get charged as a result.
It’s hilarious that you’re all trying to explain this to me when it’s my literal job 😂.
By they I meant the Georgia prosecutor.
They convened the grand jury and would issue a perjury charge for lying in front of it.
Nothing to do with federal court as the person I replied to said it was.
This isn’t federal court…it’s a county in Georgia and their local prosecutor who convened a grand jury.
They’d be the same one issuing any perjury charge.
Seems that most (if not all) states have laws against perjury that come with punishments attached, from fines to jail time of up to five years.
So the legislative has done its job.
Seems that the judges are in charge of giving the punishments, and tend to let people off with a wrist slap, so it seems like it's a justice system issue.
That's a very good point, and you're right, thank you for the correction.
Seems like judges tend to be the weak link here, as most states have strict punishments on file for perjury, from steep fines to multiple years in jail, but judges usually don't enforce.
The consequences are INTENDED to be that politicians and those in power caught lying would never get votes/support from citizens.
Our constitution did not have any way to protect us against an actively destructive populace.
Actually, in some ways, the Constitution did have protections against an actively destructive populace.
The Founders, while fans of Democracy, were not all believers in the intelligence of portions of the population.
The Electoral College was not designed to consider a popular vote in each state.
The original intention was that State Legislatures would choose the Electors to determine the Presidency.
Also, prior to the 17th Amendment, US Senators were selected by their State Legislatures.
The Founders intended these institutions to safeguard against the raucous whims of the people.
The House was intended as "the peoples' house," not because of any populist sentiment, but simply to ensure that there was a group representing random voters.
That being said, in those days, the vote only belonged to white men, often only those who owned land.
Reading the article, I first got to the line about old videos of him and his ex-gf having sex when they were teens.
I was like, "oh, that's not AS bad."
Then it kept going...