The question comes down to just how crazy/demanding the MAGA nuts in the House turn out to be.
It could be that McCarthy has to promise them so much just to get the job that he'll never be able to actually govern.
And while that might be fine with the MAGAs, not every Republican is on board with that as a philosophy.
Once upon a time, it was conventional wisdom that Republicans would fall in line.
Be interesting to see how true that still is.
OTOH, accepting votes from Dems will turn some Reps off, meaning he'd need even more votes from the Dems, which means they'd want even more in return.
So if a few relatively moderate republicans split off and all the dems vote for one of them, that seems way better than having McCarthy do it.
Especially because they can’t ratfuck the democrats too bad without losing their speaker of the house position.
If they can't get their shit together, then the GOP should split, and the Democrats should win the House by electing a speaker with a plurality vote.
As such, a Republican speaker cannot come to power, much less pass any legislation through a power sharing arrangement with Democrats as it would alienate most mainline Republicans.
If the Democrats voted in support of a Republican speaker only to have no power to limit frivolous Committee investigations, they'd be shooting their own foot.
Republicans agreeing to a power sharing committee agreement that would limit their ability to investigate Biden frivolously would defeat the purpose in Republicans leading the House at all.
Thus no line level Republicans would fall in line with that arragement.
This would cause the Republican leadership depending on more Democratic votes, further watering down the purpose of Republican governance (or lackthereof).
Additionally, I'd argue it would be absolutely foolish for Democrats to support even a Moderate Republican speaker unless those Republicans agree to committee power sharing arrangements that would limit the Republicans capacity to launch bad faith investigations of the Biden administration and cut his funding.
Even if hypothetically this “moderate” Republican is just as bad a person, the fact that they would their position as speaker of the house would be dependent on the democrats finding them the lesser of two evils means that, even if only pragmatically / cynically, they should behave in a less shitty fashion.