“It’s not a close call.
If you ask, ‘Who’s the most likely to take this republic down?’ It would be the teacher’s unions, and the filth that they’re teaching our kids, and the fact that they don’t know math and reading or writing,” the former top U.S. diplomat added.”.
Because the unions make it near impossible to fire bad teachers.
Allowing the bottom 5% or so of the profession to be replaced helps get new, dedicated educators into jobs held by those without that dedication (or perhaps the skill) who presently cannot be fired because of the union.
At least that is the case here in California.
I cannot speak to other states, I have not worked for the teachers union there.
Allowing the profession to be better rewarded for their services while allowing districts more liberty to dismiss poor teachers helps the kids and the teachers who are succeeding.
Some teachers put in so much overtime for which they are unpaid, while the bottom of the profession does just enough to not get fired.
Which again, in California, is almost impossible - firing teachers is sooooo hard here.
Disband the union and give nice pay raises for teachers attracting even more to this necessary profession.
Reward the best, and replace those who do not honor their profession.
Seems like a good proposal for all concerned.
Well all but the bad teachers who dishonor the vast majority of dedicated professionals who teach our kids.
Now certain segment of society want to vilify teachers?
Again?
Didn’t we go through this before Covid?
Perhaps teachers are seen as an easy target, a small percentage of the working population that is a safe bet to target.
We already have a shortage of good educators in this country.
For most, the pay is low and the hours are longer and more involved than people realize.
Teachers do what they do because they genuinely enjoy it.
They like working with the kids, they like making connections, they like helping a struggling student come to that, “oh, I get it now” moment.
I just retired after 29 years in the public schools.
I taught 8th grade for five years and then moved to high school where I worked with juniors and seniors.
I performed the role of teacher, confidant, only friend, sympathetic ear, dispute resolver, meal supplier, secret keeper and moderate disciplinarian.