You should have seen our other amendment on the ballot that would allow the state legislature to call itself into session whenever it wanted.
It was the size of a fucking CVS receipt on our ballot.
There is a disparity of hundreds of thousands of votes between it and this abortion amendment where people didn't even bother.
I really think after the Amy McGrath fiasco they turned a blind eye to the state.
That even includes more progressive media.
It just never let Booker get any traction.
I definitely lean on Ballotpedia a lot (and honestly find it baffling and a red flag when candidates aren't themselves utilizing it).
I also know I am not in the majority of people that don't stay informed throughout the whole process ahead of elections.
I read my ballot beforehand to research my options, but I also have horrible anxiety and the doom and gloom surrounding this election was making it even worse.
So I eventually decided to just go with my gut instinct on this one, and just be done with it.
But I had all my choices ready before I got the poll.
Honestly probably safe to read the question ahead of time when you get your sample ballot.
that way you can read it, try to understand it, read about it online, and make an informed decision.
People in this thread acting like at the polls is the first time you ever have access to the information your voting on.
I used to look up the issues showing up on my ballot before going in for early voting (2022 elections -.
Give those a quick scroll and see what you think.
Towards the bottom you'll find sections explaining the support and opposition stances, and a section showing which parties voted to put that issue in your face.
Reading through those helped me reach a No on both (The bail issue was not moving in the direction we need for bail reform.
Voter suppression is a massive problem in this country and our state government doesn't need more verbiage that bad actors can leverage to those ends).
We also had a local tax levy for fire upgrades so that's alright.