The irony is there but a lot of people do not understand that the contemporary Russian definition of Nazi has nothing to do with a battle against Antisemitism or a sense of justice against oppression.
They are described as Nazis because Nazis were the enemies of the Soviet Union or Russia as an entity.
Antisemitism is unfortunately deeply ingrained in Slavic cultures, another reason why my family left Ukraine when they had the chance and even when settling into a Ukrainian-speaking community in the US, the Antisemitism was so bad they converted just to be left alone.
I mean Russia has threatened retaliation against Russian Jews in case Israel openly declares support and provides military assistance (we all know Israel is still providing that support but it is much more clandestine.
Israel knows Russia isn't their friend, but Russia has actively threatened the Jewish population of Russia if Israel provides lethal aid and Israel needs Russia's tacit consent to keep Syrian and Iranian terrorists at bay.
The notion Israel isn't taking sides or isn't supporting Ukraine is typical Reddit anti-israel bullshit.
Israel has done an incredible amount for Ukraine, especially for a country which is smaller than New Jersey and who's GDP is ranked 26th in the world, way below most first world nations, many of whom have done less to aid Ukraine.
However their hands are tied by Russia's threat against Russian Jews and the fact Israel needs to not piss off Russia enough that Russia retaliates when Israel defends itself against Syrian and Iranian terrorists who are dead set on blowing up Israeli citizens or ideally (in their mind) wiping the country off the map entirely.
That said Israel has taken out several Iranian drone factories (the drones Russia has been using against Ukraine) as well as provided huge amounts of humanitarian aid including fully staffed (by Israelis) fully functional hospitals, literal tons of medicine and food, and has taken in more Ukrainian refugees than most Western European countries combined.
But for a tiny tiny country Israel has done a stunningly huge amount to help Ukraine especially in humanitarian matters, falling just short of providing them lethal aid.
Israel deserves a lot of props for everything they've done and how much they're risking by toeing the line as much as they have.