This article about an earlier attempt by North Carolina Republicans to implement their discriminatory ID laws says it best, in my opinion.
I thought I explained this in my first post, but maybe I can be more clear.
In the example of North Carolina, the Republican lawmakers looked at the data of what races of voters had which IDs.
Based on that information, they allowed IDs for Voting that White voters tended to have more often, and blocked IDs for Voting that Black voters tended to have the most.
Their own internal documents were leaked, and it was a PhD thesis level study on how to disenfranchise black voters with things like voter ID.
They did massive studies on what IDs black people tend to have, so they could disallow those from counting.
And the opposite with white people - found the types of IDs white people do tend to have and required those.
Then, after passing the laws requiring IDs, they close the DMVs in black neighborhoods and other offices where you can get an ID.
The first time the civil rights act was gutted by SCOTUS Alabama enacted some strict voter ID rules and then closed down a ton of DMV's in majority black communities.
Republican lawmakers in North Carolina have a history of determining how Black voters vote and taking away those methods.
Whether it was certain types of ID that Black voters had more often than white voters, early voting vs Election Day voting, locations that tended to have more Black voters - North Carolina Republicans targeted Black voters to try and obstruct their path to their right to vote.
They were enacted during Jim Crow to intentionally disenfranchise African American voters via various mechanisms - IDs often came with an exam to exclude the illiterate, or with a price tag to exclude the poor, or they would require an in-person visit to a segregated office where African Americans would have to wait in long lines.
The only thing preventing automatic voter registration for all citizens and free voter ID for all is GOP obstructionism.
In a modern country there is no excuse to make this process difficult other than to disenfranchise people.