Having watched quite a few lectures on this subject, from leading science boffins … they believe it was a combination of human activity … vast areas of jungle were cleared, in combination with shifting climate change.
The former amplified the latter changes.
It came in stages.
The final blow; a severe drought, brought everything down in less than 200 years.
William Fash and his wife, both from Harvard, have dedicated to studying the Mayans.
Some of the lectures, can be a bit technical at times - I was just amazed at how many different types of scientists research and study this fascinating time in history.
There’s a lot of hard data to inform us.
Annnyway ).
Truth be told, I didn't really want to say that, but after many hours of soaking this all in ... well, I kind of had this very weird feeling.
If there ever was a cautionary tale about what we might not want to do, then I think the Mayans have a lot to teach us.
Curious as to why they're saying Maya.
I thought 2k years ago was linked to the culture that preceded the Maya (can't recall if it was Olmec or Toltec, it's been years since I did a course on Maya history).
The Toltecs were the supposed predecessors to the Aztecs, both of whom emerged after the Classic Maya collapse in the 10^th Century CE.
The Olmecs were contemporaries to the Pre-Classic Maya, but weren't directly related.
Also, the olmecs lived in a very different area, but they did traded with the maya region, and influenced the art and culture of the preclassic maya.
The Olmecs didn't inhabit the same region as the maya, they lived in what today is the mexican state of Veracruz, that being said, both peoples traded and there is a distinct olmec influence in many preclassic maya sites.
The olmecs inhabited another region, in what is today Veracruz, the maya inhabited the Yucatán peninsula, Guatemala, Belize, Chiapas, and the west of Honduras and El Salvador.
There is a bit of interaction between both peoples during the preclassic maya period of history.
There are older maya cities with their own monarchs and histories, places like Takalik Ab'aj, Chocolá or Kaminaljuyú which predate the reign you're referencing by several centuries.
He isn't the first king, and was only king in Palenque.