I’d be happy to answer some questions if you have them, but you’ll need to be more specific about what you want to know, because it’s a huge topic.
I’m not Chinese, but I’m fluent in the language, lived there for over 7 years (including during the shanghai lockdown), and have an advanced degree in China studies.
3.
Are Chinese people relatively free to protest/riot?
No.
While the constitution provides for freedom of speech, in actuality, it’s heavily censored and heavily suppressed in most instances.
Topics deemed sensitive are banned from search results, deleted from social media, and people who continually post them often get a visit from the local police.
While some might agree with that in theory, the problem is the definition of ‘sensitive’ topics are unreasonably broad and expansive, so most average people don’t know which topics they are truly allowed to talk about or not - a big reason why most people just don’t talk about politics at all.
Generally speaking, the only protests allowed are ones sanctioned by the government - for example, if the government is having a diplomatic spat with another country, citizens are allowed and ‘encouraged’ to protest and boycott goods made by that country.
A very notable example were the boycotts against South Korean goods during the THAAD dispute in 2018.
There are other protests are allowed, but that’s only if they are deemed not sensitive.
There was a notable example a few years back where dog owners were permitted to protest against rules banning dog-walking in public parks in Beijing in a specifically-designated area, but that was allowed only because policymakers in Beijing weren’t afraid those protestors were going to march on the capital and overthrow the government.
Non-sanctioned protests do happen, more regularly than is talked about in most international media, but traditionally they are very restricted to issues like labor disputes or criticisms of LOCAL government officials (like a provincial government, NOT the central government in Beijing).
The government tends to try and prevent protests as much as possible, not through negotiation, but through ‘inviting protest leaders to tea’ at the police station, a nice way of saying ‘threatening them, maybe offering a bribe to tell the protestors to go home and forget about it.’ If that doesn’t work and a larger protest kicks off, the government very often resorts to force (albeit practically always non-lethal), sending police or sometimes local mafia enforcers to arrest protestors, crack heads, etc - something we saw very clearly during the protests at the Henan bank scandal earlier this year.
In short, while the law in theory allows you to protest, if you’re going to protest about anything important, you are undertaking great risk to yourself.
Yes exactly this is how we're being played but these protests are being used as an example to bring in much tougher laws against protesting.
The policing bill and public order bills are being brought in and these protests you're irritated by are helping to enforce restriction on public freedom far quicker.