I have to keep mentally reminding myself that he hasn’t been removed from office because even a few of these stories should have been more than enough.
If he were ousted, this would feel gratuitous at this point, the world’s first 100% true character assassination, like beating a dead horse so long that people start screaming that it’s already dead.
But he’s still in office, so no, actually we do need to keep unearthing this stuff.
This man is fucking insane.
I understand “why”.
“Money”.
That’s simple.
The better questions are “how the fuck” and “what the fuck”.
The motives are clear.
What make no goddamn sense are the means.
He seems to almost compulsively be making money exclusively through It’s Always Sunny In Philadelphia-style shenanigans.
That’s not a thing.
Humans don’t live like that.
Stealing puppies from an Amish puppy mill and then pretending to sell them for charity in order to scam people out of money and pocketing the money?
That is a fucking Charlie and Frank scheme.
International bank card crime?
That’s a fucking Frank scheme.
Faking great college graduations, working at Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, and sports stardom?
Mac and Dennis behavior.
His only recorded “legal” jobs being a stint in a Ponzi scheme and being a call center employee?
Mac and Charlie.
Stealing money from disabled vet service dogs that are dying?
Dennis.
Incomprehensible lying about his racial background and his family being victims of various tragedies?
Dee.
Secretly did drag?
Mac.
They elected the entire Gang put into the body of one man!
George Santos is single-handedly the real life Mac, Dennis, Charlie, Dee, and Frank.
What the fuck???
?
Meh.
You can do a lot of things just in your twenties to write a short book.
This guy just got around to doing more shit that the rest of us.
Santos has been a loyal puppy so far.
Democrats are definitely getting another member after the special election in VA later this year.
Santos' district isn't exactly safe Republican it's last two reps have been Democrats.
McCarthy isn't about to hand Democrats and the crazy Republicans numbers.
So get ready for more of all this.