What did you say about the missile?
I’ll have you know the missile has over 300 corrective commands and is the top of moving itself to a position where it isn’t.
The fact that they don't tells me that they are either unable to or too slow to find the aforementioned targets in a timeframe that allows them to be targeted with a cruise missile.
CRAMs like the Phalanx have a success rate of only around 50% against cruise missiles and other relatively slow missiles.
They are incapable of intercepting ballistic missiles or hypersonic ones.
Israel’s Iron Dome would have trouble intercepting all of Russia’s barrage of missiles against Ukraine as it was designed to defend against Hamas rockets, not actual cruise missiles.
China has enough ballistic missiles to destroy the majority of Taiwan’s air defences, radar stations and open military installations many times over.
They don’t need to land troops within the first month of an invasion.
All they need to do is cut the island off from any resupply and that’ll be pitifully easy.
The US won’t want to get so close in range to China’s overwhelmingly large anti-ship missile stockpile and without a military escort, there will be no resupply of Taiwan.
Or China could just send a massive wave of missiles against all of Taiwan’s airports, sea ports and transport links to completely cut off the country’s food and weapons supply and starve the country into submission without needing to land a single troop onto the island.
China does not need to blockade Taiwan as much as they need to prevent Taiwan from being resupply by constant harassment of shipments via their fleet of submarines (of which they have MANY diesel ones) and use of their anti-ship missiles to prevent any cargo ships from making it to any remaining Taiwanese ports (all of which would’ve been destroyed by the initial missile strike anyways).
Any resupply shipments meant for Taiwan would need to be able to survive well within China’s anti-ship missile umbrella, something that not even the US Navy is sure it can do for its own ships given that war games predict the sinking of practically the entirety of two carrier groups due to these anti-ship missiles.
What leads to the US victory in the simulation was rotating packs of submarines/strategic bombers outside of Chinese air coverage lobbing thousands of long-range cruise missiles destroying the Chinese navy, naval bases, and airfields.