Fuck no on Harris.
I mean, fuuuuuuuck no.
When she was the first to drop out of the last Dem primary with 1-3% support, she shouldve never even been VP imo.
You make good points but I think many moderate, centrist Dems are really not getting, even now, that millions of people voted to get the former piece of trash out of the presidency.
Biden would certainly win again against Trump but DeSantis?
Enough low-info “indepedent” voters would “give him a chance” over Biden.
The people who lost to POTUS Joe Biden I'm not sure would somehow be a better Presidential candidate than he.
US Senator Bernie Sanders lost because the Mainstream Media was so against him and US Senator Elizabeth Warren didn't drop out when the others did.
US Senator Sanders would have beaten Donald Trump in 2016 and we would have presently been in the 2nd term of the Sanders Administration.
US Senator Sanders lost the primaries in 2020 because POTUS Barack Obama was still more popular than US Sen. Sanders and got all the 'moderates' to drop out and endorse Joe Biden and US Senator Elizabeth Warren didn't drop out.
Sanders does not have broad support and Sanders lost in 2020 because he did not get enough votes.
There were 15-20 dems in the primaries at one point.
Only one could be the candidate and it was never ever going to be Sanders because he simply does not have broad enough support.
Believe it or not, even dem votes that did not go for Sanders, even ones that went to Harris, still count as votes.
If Dems actually want to win and by enough to actually get things done they would go with a proven candidate.
But I'm not sure they care about that it may be their desire to be the opposition party again while Republicans spend their austerity on trickle down.
I think Republicans are going to keep doing pretty well when they can join with the most corrupt Democrats in doing everything from raising my taxes (Manchin) to outlawing abortion (Crueller) and still get called "moderate".
Maybe Democratic primary voters will eventually wake up and realize these so called "moderates" are actually the most extreme members of the party.
Until then I guess the country will continue to pretend the Republican party is a center right party and the more one sides with them the more "in the middle" that person is.
Which I think is guaranteed to result in Republicans having some control over the government for a very long time.