Despite the headline being about Facebook, this bill would've bene detrimental to all news aggregators (Reddit, Google, YCombinator, etc).
This is pretty close to a law that passed in Europe which empowered news sources to charge sites for displaying links to their content, after which Google promptly delisted any of those news sources, and shortly after, the law was rescinded.
This would have been an awful bill to pass.
If anything, it would've encouraged aggregators to only post links to sites that did not charge, which would probably be the bottom-of-the-barrel disinformation sites that are propped up by wealthy right wing fanatics.
News sites get revenue from visits to their sites (through ads on their sites).
If the typical Reddit user isn't clicking through the link and reading the article anyways, then why should the news site get paid for that?
Yes, which would mean that Reddit (and in turn us) would be paying that news organization for the right to give them more traffic...
One could certainly make the argument that people on Reddit should not be transcribing news stories that are behind paywalls - but the vast majority of news I read on here is just directly linked to "free" sites.
E: and to further the point, you aren't reading the article on Reddit or Google or Facebook or whatever, you're being provided a link to view it on the source's website, thereby granting them traffic and ad revenue.
What this would do is allow the source to double dip, getting revenue from the aggregators in addition to the ad revenue from the site visit, because precisely 0 sites would stop showing ads due to increased revenue from link sharing.
Why shouldn't aggregators be required to share ad revenue with the websites they link and drive content from?
Why does reddit get a free lunch off of the work of other journalists?
It's not like people are clicking the links, so the news site is doing the work, and reddit gets the traffic.
Genuinely asking.
Why shouldn't reddit share a cut with those that did the work?