Using a nuclear weapon of any kind is a gaurantee of a NATO intervention, Ukraine being a member or not doesn't matter, the free world has had just about enough of this little celebration of genocide.
Allowing Russia to use a nuclear weapon without a KINETIC response is just an invitation to paint the world white blue and red.
because it will have shown Nuclear terrorism to be effective.
Yes but directly targeting NATO with nukes is both A) against their own nuclear doctrine and B) results in NATO going nuclear in response.
For all their bluster about nukes, when they are actually pushed about it they always back down admitting they don't have madmen because they have a doctrine.
Not to mention that NATO and Russia watch each others nuclear warhead storage sites like hawks and Russia gearing up for 'just in case' against NATO would get an immediate "don't even fucking think about it" from NATO and even Russian 'allies' like India and China have publicly warned Russia against it.
Simply put Russia isn't going to use nukes because there is literally no realistic scenario where they end up in a better situation (and why would you use a weapon that guarantees a loss).
Russia keeps threatening nukes because they know people like you are going to panic about them and try and force those who know better to back down.
If I had to put money on who's rapid response nuclear deterrent deployment behaves as designed, it's not on Russia's.
I would also bet it all on the fact that they don't get the opportunity to work out what went wrong with the missiles that don't detonate or hit their intended target.
It could in theory destroy the missile, but it's the wrong tool for that particular job.
And even if it did knock the target out, that's a lot of kinetic energy still in the air.
A Kh-22 can hit Mach 4.5 iirc.
LPWS (land phalanx weapon system) has an effective range of about a mile, which that missile can cover in just over one second (I'm guessing, no idea what final approach speed is).
Also consider, in a case like this, the missile is likely not flying directly at the LPWS.