Many of the Mujahideen in the 80s were religious fundamentalists, some of whom would end up in the Taliban.
Many of the others, who didn't end up Taliban, did end up allied with other religious fundamentalists too.
The other groups were not associated with the Taliban.
Like not all Mujahideen are Taliban.
Like the Taliban is a Sunni-Pashtun centric group.
Like they commit act of ethnic cleansing toward Shia Hazara.
Mujahideen was more of a loose association of attacking a foreign invader.
Like there's not really an ideology.
The Taliban was more of an off shot that was created in a refugee camp.
The Taliban was more of a result of anarchy/power vaccum than anything.
Taliban was created in the 90s.
You guys are thinking the Mujahideen.
And that is more like a resistance fighter.
Really no organization.
Majority of the training was done by Pakistan, not the USA.
USA mostly provide arms and funds.
At the time most did.
Mujahideen were a diverse groups in the 1980s.
You had Uzbek, you had Hazara you had Pashtuns, you had Baluch, you had Shia, you had Sunni plus the foreign Arab fighters.
Taliban in contrast is a Sunni Pashtun group.
I am just saying it's important to note the differences.
Taliban was founded in a Civil War in the aftermath of the Soviet pullouts mostly out of a desire for order from the warlords, not from the Soviet invasion.
Plenty of the guys that fought the Soviets went on to fight the Taliban for decades in the Afghan Civil War - and in fact post-war were founding members of the Western backed Government (who yes, in turn was subsumed by the Taliban post-Western withdrawal, but even then there's still groups fighting the Taliban).
The foundations of the Taliban you paint is also a bit off.
Sure the Mujahideen and Taliban share members, but saying that the Mujahideen transition wholly into being the Taliban is misrepresenting that group.
The Taliban in part was formed out of refugees who had fled to Pakistan and were radicalized there, before returning to the post-Soviet Afghanistan where they then sought to impose themselves over the rest of the Country (with Pakistani aid I'd mention (which also involved Pakistani soldiers fighting in Afghanistan).
Pakistan really gets left out when people are focussing on criticizing the West, and in particular America, while talking about the Taliban (hell, Pakistani soldiers were directly fighting Western troops throughout our War there)).