Depends on the terms of the deal.
From Israel's perspective, a deal like what Obama signed, is worse than no deal.
So, if such deal is signed, there is a high probability that Israel will strike.
But, there are terms that Israel would find satisfactory.
In a nutshell, strike or no strike is not function of deal or not, but function of how close Iran is to getting the bomb.
I.e.
if there is no deal or there is a bad deal, but Iran doesn't do sudden moves: then there is no strike.
A deal can prevent Israel's strike if Israel is convinced that terms of the deal make it impossible for Iran to make such sudden moves.
Israel will be ready to risk an all out, devastating war to prevent Iranian nukes - if everything else fails.
That said, Netanyahu was always clear that he is willing to use military force to prevent an Iranian nuclear weapon, if diplomacy fails.
Thus, nuclear weapons will be used, without a doubt, Israel will nuke Iran and won't even think twice if it means preventing them from achieving a nuclear weapon, there is quite literally nothing worse than a nuclear Iran for Israel.
Iran creating nuclear weapons provokes Israel as much as Israel having nuclear weapons provokes Iran.
I think if Israel attacks Iran unprovoked, the US should not intervene and Israel can deal with whatever consequences themselves.
They have a modern military, so maybe it will be ok for them.
If Iran attacks, then by all means let's blow them to smithereens, but Israel should not interpret US monetary and military support as a license to be belligerent and warmongering and the US government should make it clear to the Israeli government that they will be on their own in such an event.
I do not believe Iran should have nuclear weapons, but I also do not think Israel should decide to pre-emptively attack and expect automatic US backup.
Iran is not some piddly country we can just waltz into and steamroll, and I think any operation that would cost American lives should be evaluated with the strictest criteria.
A retaliatory attack by Iran to a pre-emptive attack by Israel does not rise to the level of needing US intervention for me.
As I said, US monetary and military support should not be interpreted as a carte blanche license for belligerence.