Basically, Russia's stance is "give us whatever we want, and we will start to negotiate your surrender.
".
True.
I guess we really can't say if anything was net good or net bad until we are out of it.
What sounds bad for Russia now might just be bad for everyone given some time if it means they are finally passing the threshold of not caring about being perceived as aggressive.
Exactly.
All I see is that China has just been "handed" an ultimatum that ensures no peace unless Russia controls Ukraine.
They now have justification for escalation and can say "well, we would have preferred Plan A but you guys all saw how that worked out, so we had to change course".
Very true and that shouldn't be ignored.
As a counter point though that could be seen as more reason for them take more drastic action on a shorter time table if they know are about to experience a decline in growth and population.
If there is in fact some loose "50 year plan" they have, I'm sure they wouldn't hesitate to make it a slightly more aggressive "20 year plan" if they thought it was an existential necessity.
Bad things happen when desperation meets a closing window of time.
Russia is giving China, and the world, the ultimatum of “Give me Ukraine or I won’t stop”, but I don’t think we can assume this whole proposal by China was done in good faith.
This is the closest we're gonna get to China denouncing Russia, although I am pleased to see the first and top point is respecting sovereignty.
It shows that China doesn't exactly approve of this crap even though they won't do anything about it.
I personally think their reasons for not turning on Russia are entirely geopolitical and have more to do with their rivalry with the US than being friends with Russia.
They could care less about Russia's dreams of European domination, though they'd prefer it if Russia chilled the hell out.
The truth is Russia has no chance of winning against the NATO, and China, with an economic slowdown, don’t want to throw in their lot with the Russians.
The Russia cheap oil is nice, but that’s about it.