Nope sorry.
People and political movements can be fascists even when they are not in power or have not yet consolidated power.
With the rise of far-right fascist-adjacent leaders like Trump and Meloni, this pattern of fascist takeovers is becoming increasingly important to be able to recognize lest we end up with another Mussolini.
Mussolini took power in 1924 due to forming a coalition with several conservative parties who wrote legislation that allowed him to take power.
It was not a free or fair election, but Mussolini did have national support which is how he became a dictator.
Edit: I feel the need to be clear that when I say "Mussolini took power legally" that is not a moral judgement.
He and his party used violent intimidation to "persuade" voters to vote a certain way, wrote terribly biased legislation that strenhened his hold on the government, staged a coup which is obviously anti-democratic, and the list goes on.
However, if all Mussolini had was a couple thousand armed followers, it is unlikely he would ever have taken power.
He had the support of the majority of conservative politicians who twisted the existing law or wrote new ones to legally transfer power to Mussolini.
Look at every election from 1929 to the mid 1940's, there is only one party on the ballot, the National Fascist Party, a stark difference from 1924.
Mussolini followed Italian law to take power and then once he had it, he turned the government into a dictatorship.
This isn't unique to Mussolini, a common theme of fascists is they take power by way of an unstable democracy.
We need to be aware of this and not pretend a fascist isn't a fascist because they won an election.
But you have a definition of Fascism that is really far from what fascism is.
In the USA you have had Trump who has been absolutely closer to Mussolini than any previous or Italian prime minister since 1946.
What I have described includes exactly everything Mussolini did and excludes everything Meloni has done or will do.