I rolled the dice and watched Day Shift on Netflix.
Jamie Foxx and Snoop Dogg play vampire hunters in LA, collecting teeth for bounties on the black market.
It’s buddy cop campy as fuck and the action is rock solid.
Very much in the vein of John Wick, and it turns out the fight choreography director worked on that franchise as well.
Definitely recommend this one if you want something fun to watch.
It’s been almost fifteen years and I didn’t try to go inside Nintendo when I was there, so I’m not sure.
You’d have to do some research on that.
Sorry!
Don’t have any personal recommendations for Tokyo, but if you get an opportunity to add a visit to Kyoto to your trip I’d highly recommend going to see the Fushimi Inari shinto shrine.
There’s a beautiful shrine site at the bottom of the mountain and if you choose you can walk a long path to the summit that will take you through some gorgeous woods with a bunch of little cemeteries and lookouts along the way.
It will take some energy and an afternoon but it’s a really peaceful and scenic walk.
You can take the Shinkansen there from Tokyo in a couple hours and Nintendo HQ is nearby right off the train path too, so you can make a cool day trip out of those two.
Tokyo Tower is a really cool place to visit, neat both to look at and to look out from.
I also liked Yoyogi Park near Harajuku.
There's a cool shrine that way too, Meiji Jingu.
If you make your way to Kyoto as another person recommended (only a couple hours by shinkansen), I second visiting Mount Inari.
There's some great walking paths along the Kamo River.
Also, Toei Kyoto Studio Park is so cool, kind of like Universal Studios but for feudal era Japan.
Lots of kid friendly attractions.
The Japan Rail Pass was an amazing resource as a tourist.
It covers local trains and shinkansen, and it paid for itself after a single trip from Fukuoka to Kyoto.
I was able to see a lot of Tokyo very easily by train, and my train experience was way better than taking the buses (I'd recommend just getting a Suica transit card if you need to take the bus, I was never able to figure out the correct protocol to pay by cash without the driver getting mad at me).