For the majority of my career I admit I have been wrong.
I had argued that Russia pulled all the stops in the name of winning and I had argued that the US fought under a leash of “integrity and honor” which ceded so much maneuver room to Russia both politically and strategically.
Absent of the disasterous Ukraine campaign in which Russia just commits all its men and materials to a meat grinder, it seemed as though Russia would win the war of attrition against the US by buying out allies, increasing the cost and time of conflicts by propping up proxies, and conducting expansionist campaigns like Crimea 2014 and Georgia 2008 with impunity.
To be clear, I did not encourage the US to stoop to Russias level- political assassinations, subverting governments, committing war crimes overseas such as Syria.
But I did believe the US was not heavy handed enough diplomatically and lacked the political resolve to complete conflicts by leaving the heavy lifting for military commanders to try to resolve.
I argued for more involvement of the CIA to directly counter the antics of the Russian intelligence agencies and for more integration of the US Armed Forces and intelligence community to achieve countering capability to Russias “hybrid warfare”.
But the conflict in Ukraine has shown the US’s supremacy in soft power.
The US was proven right for the intelligence sharing leading into the Russian invasion.
Nearly all nations except some rogue states (Iran and NK) have heeded the international sanctions- even China and Soviet bloc Central Asia states will not budge on dodging sanctions despite a perception that there would be nothing the US could do militarily to enforce.
And in this moment of the article, no one outside of Russia believes Russias claim that Ukraine is perpetuating the conflict- that all actions as the US has consistently prescribed - are a part of a Russian failed takeover of a sovereign nation.
They think Ukraine should want a peace that means they lose a large portion of their country and their momentum in this war they think they should want a relief from the bombings and mean heartless Zelensky isn't letting Ukranians just live in peace under Russian rule.
The Baltics and Poland are never letting this go, it's an existential war for us and Ukrainians spilling their blood for freedom and democracy will never be forgotten.