It's the non partisan polls that people should pay attention to.
There have been too many right leaning pollsters just putting out poll after poll of Republicans in the lead only for a non partisan poll to come out showing the Democrats in the lead.
But non partisan pollsters do a better job of following George Gallop's quota system unlike right leaning pollsters.
An example of this is Insider Average(?)
a right leaning pollster did a poll of PA after the debate that showed Oz up by three, the problem is that only fourteen percent of respondents were young people who made up twenty-five percent of the electorate in 2018 and twenty-eight percent in 2020 in PA, and it didn't have enough black respondents as well.
From what I understand pollsters are trying to mix in landlines, cell phones and online polls to correct past mistakes, but it isn't a given that it will work, and they are also weighing non-responses to favor Republicans, but there's no guarantee that it will work.
Now many people dont have land lines, pollsters can use cellphones but then people might not answer a number that they do not recognize (especially younger people), and let it go to voice mail (now this is also the case for landlines).
There is an overall trend in avoiding long phone conversations, so some people just hang up after understating that it is a survey or not respond to the follow up surveys at a later date (which is a big issue because pollster ideally want to see how the opinions of the same people are changing).
Online surveys avoid some of these issues, but then it becomes very difficult to really know who you are really surveying, for example you could accidently survey a non-citizen or a 15 year old.
Landlines, cell phones and online also reach to different demographics, which skew the sample.
All of these issues cause polls to only sample people who want to respond to a survey.
These could be people who have strong opinions, or upset about something, which might not necessarily reflect the general public.
Like you pointed, I also think polls became more "reactionary", in that they tend to capture people who want their opinions to be heard.
Imo even the non partisan polls are not great, and the issue is poling is becoming a lot more difficult (or not having biased polls).
In the past, you could opened a phone book and randomly called people, everyone had a landline and 95% would have responded since there was no way (or a very limited way) of knowing who was calling.
Having long phone conversations was a usual part of life, so you could conduct detailed surveys and a series of follow up surveys.
Yeah many top tier pollsters to a mixture of polls and blend the results using model that they predict to reflect the populace.
But again the models are mostly based on past elections and the census, and could cause inaccurate weighing of the results.
For example, you might be responding more to surveys at a ratio of 60% to 40%, but based on past elections and the census, the surveyor might think it would be close to 50-50 during the elections and adjust the results by weighing woman less .
Well... it might turn out to be 60-40 during the election as well.
Get out there and vote.
Get friends, family, co-workers to vote.
Carpool to the voting locations.
We need to stop letting Fox-News-addled boomers decide who leads the country.