I mean, by acting like it’s a both sides thing, you’ve pretty well illustrated my point - the Republicans want to try to impeach Biden in order to manipulate people into believing that the Democrats were using impeachment as a political ploy and that any future impeachments are a political ploy.
The republicans want people to go “here we go again, X party trying to impeach y party.” They want that to weaken the checks and balances system.
They want you to act like it’s both sides, and ignore that 7 republicans, for the first time ever, voted to remove a president from their own party.
That said, in the short term I think it would be humiliating for the Republican Party.
If they retake the house this cycle (which they probably will), it will be by a much smaller number than anyone anticipated, and it will be close enough that there will be at least some who refuse to vote for impeachment.
This election made clear that many voters are tired of the Republican extremists, and some representatives are going to look to distinguish themselves from the rest of the party by being more rational.
It’ll fail, and it’ll be juxtaposed to the bipartisan impeachment of Trump, and to Donald Trump being the first president to have members of his own party vote for removal.
But, if the Republicans don’t make a big deal of trying to impeach Biden, and just do it quietly, it might not even hurt them next election cycle.
I won't vote for him in a primary, but of he's the nominee he gets my vote not because fuck republicans, but because he's done a far better job than I think anyone but the most ardent Biden supporters thought he would.
One of the MAGA candidates here in western Washinon was running a radio ad the ended with her saying something to the effect of "I support president Donald J. Trump and will vote to impeach Joe Biden if I'm elected".
That was like six months ago, so frivolous impeachment hearings against Biden have been a cornerstone of the GOP campaign strategy for a while now.
She never mentioned exactly what she wanted to impeach him for, I guess she thought she would just throw in her vote to impeach him in general.