However, the conditions at these camps are terrible and allegedly people are almost picked at random by local government to fill them up just to satisfy quotas and mandates coming down from the central government.
The problem with the zero Covid policy is that is operates under the idea of a dictated reality: the central government says that Covid isn't endemic in China, therefore it isn't and can't be.
The various local governments just don't do testing until they're forced to by case loads that they can't hide, and they blame people coming from other provinces, or , or just .
Then they just do a few harsh and indiscriminate lockdowns for a while and juke the stats so it looks like it worked and everything is okay again.
Then repeat that same song and dance all over China.
Then you have China.
Physically locking people into their homes among other crazy things in a futile effort for zero COVID, especially with the current vaccination and variant situation, is much more about control than it is about health.
Stopping people from going out for the fun of it and making them wear masks was a smart thing to do when COVID was rampant with many unknowns.
Now that COVID is much more in check with vaccines and less deadly variants, those items are much less necessary.
China has no endgame in sight and is doing this in a futile effort for zero covid when a vaccine exists.
Not helping is the Chinese government shat all over the western vaccine....
They have to admit they were wrong, the western vaccine was safe, and their domestic pharma industry underperformed.... And also lied with ccp backing..... Then a bunch won't take it anyway(alternative/quack medicine is taken waaaaaay more seriously than the west) leading to embarrassing death rates anyway.
Vaccine hesitenacy and anti-vax is also a thing in East Asia....I don't know about China but in Japan it was really bad.... My Japanese friend in the states was terrified of getting the vaccine...
I had to hold her hand and escort her to a clinic.