Too many people sit on their asses and do nothing, expecting a tiny number of passionate people to save their future for them.
More importantly, should we really throw away democracy even if they didnt hit the fine detail here that you wanted to see?
So if/when the Dem's get wiped out, and 2 years from now we are having another election, can we agree this "end of democracy" was nonsense propaganda?
Now, do I agree with Republicans and the very specific threats they pose to our democracy?
I certainly do not.
However, the Democrats pose their own threats to the same in addition to having a wide range of overlap with their counterparts by the simple virtue of being politicians.
Both sides are voting to preserve the rights they believe in at the expense of other rights.
That being said, Democrats do not have some ethically ultimate high ground.
Sure, voting for a third party will never net results but it is your vote.
You’re entitled to it and are allowed to make that vote of your own volition.
If neither party represents you, don’t vote for them, and by extension, if none of them do then you’re not obligated to vote.
Voting in anyway for the simple sake of denying the other party is perpetuating the exact issue that got us here today and no amount of “progressivism” is going to change that.
The parties will continue to polarize, radicalize, and ultimately split the nation and the concept of voting for one party no matter what as opposed to voting for who represents you is exactly the driving force behind it all.
Either way, your vote is actively helping an openly white christofascist party assume sufficient control of the federal government to put the final nail in the coffin of American liberal democracy.
And once all means of peaceful change have been closed-off, then there are going to be big, bright lines drawn throughout our little social experiment here.
And I’d much prefer to know from the outset on which side everyone is standing.
So vote Republican and own your political power like an adult with an ounce of intellectual integrity.