Despite being in a blue state, I can't think of a better example of that kind of town than Shingletown, California.
A small town, half an hour away from Redding, in the deepest red area of the state, that contributes absolutely nothing to the state's economy.
There's a Dollar General, a lone grocery store, a singular pizza joint and that's it.
There used to be a tiny cafe but that burned down and the pizza joint nearly burned down but it got rebuilt.
My grandparents used to live up there and I went there many times growing up.
The only reason it exists is because Redding was within driving distance.
If someone blew up the highway leading in and out of the city in a civil war, which is what would happen if a "national divorce" were to happen, they'd be trapped with nothing.
That would be a good idea, but I was discussing the idea that notion that Rural America is some haven of "good Christian values" and hard work when that's just not true.
Americans idolize the idea of the pious rural worker, that probably comes from the days of Manifest Destiny in a bid to separate us from the "savages", but in reality Rural America is full of dying Republican towns in both red and blue states.
That's why people in Red states want a civil war so badly and why rural areas in blue states want to break off, the "State of Jefferson" separatist movement is based in the same general area of California as Shingletown, because in their minds they're completely self-sufficient when they're really not.
Again, blow up that one road and an entire town of about 2500 people would be trapped without any way to bring in food or supplies.
States like Wyoming and Oklahoma, where there is no meaningful Democratic resistance, would be fairly stable but would devolve into a fascist theocracy pretty quickly.
The only stories of violence coming out of those places would be of Christian Nationalists brutalizing their victims, mostly people of color or LGBTQ+ individuals.
People genuinely believe that everyone in a red state is some upstanding, hard-working farmer.
Most of the agricultural sector is made up of agribusiness and factory farms and most of the employees are migrant workers getting paid next to nothing.
A lot of small towns in "Real America" are stagnant towns, rife with drug abuse, and have suffered from several generations of brain drain.
The only areas that are growing in those red states are more liberal, urban areas.
Even in New York and California, the agricultural parts of the states are red voters.
And most cities trend liberal.
There are not liberal and conservative states.
There's blue cities, purple suburbs and red rural towns.
Our winner take all system makes this less obvious.