I always personally thought that the biblical flood myths were based on real life tales passed down of rising sea levels from the end of the last ice age, which would have coincided with when humans were just starting to develop civilization.
The tales would have been muddled and exaggerated because it was before writing so it was oral history passed down for millennia.
Every old culture on the planet has their own flood myth, inherited from oral legends reaching as far back as anyone can read up on.
The evidence that we survived something like this is compelling, and it opens up questions about the past like a rude awakening.
"Modern" humans have been around on the planet for hundreds of thousands of years, where we believed them to have stayed in a hunter-gatherer standstill in most of it.
If things like the water erosion theories from Egypt ends up becoming the dominating angle on history, we can only wonder what else people built across the world before it all shattered into the sea.
How far did we come before the reset?
There's a rising push to investigate the possibility that a catastrophic flood happened in the younger dryas, from comets hitting the planet which caused rapid melting of the ice.
They've found old stone sites high up on hills far away from water, with built in waterways, and traces of old sea life in the soil it's buried in.
Below this is even older stone structures, which would have ended up drowned by the sea, pointing at people relocating from extreme sea level rise.
People have been taking second looks at areas like Egypt with the floods in mind and found water erosion on structures such as the Sphinx.
Consistent with heavy rainfalls over something like a thousand years, which hasn't happened in our current story of Egypt.
The Sphinx has a corner exposed from ancient repair efforts, with a larger rock pointing out from beneath the layer.
The rock has none of the same erosion as the rest of it, meaning it didn't suffer the rainfall, or anything else that could have caused it.This leads questions into how old is it, really?
The legend of the floods are much older than the bible, it comes from the oldest texts we've ever uncovered stretching back to ancient Sumer.
Their myths also speak of people who built enclosed rafts to survive the floods, which is where the tale of Noah's Ark comes from.