However, it is not clear to White Democrats that Black voters are not just responding to recent history.
Apathetic voters are responding to generational trends and a constant meme and habit of Democrats to trot out any old procedural excuse why they can't pass a policy that would materially help our community and politcally help the democratic party.
I get the frustration, but you're misplacing that frustration on the entire Democratic party when it's really the Republican party and two "fake" Democrats that made eliminating the filibuster to pass the Voting Rights act impossible.
The problem here is you are blaming the Democratic party for not reciprocating your support with immediate legislation (such as a Voting Rights Act), when you should be furious that the Republican party is dead set against you (and pretty much any Democrat voter) from having a voice.
That should motivate you even more, and that is where your anger should be directed.
Yes, I do wish there were more progressive politicians.
Which is exactly why you and all of us have to keep voting.
Continue to support the Democratic party, and progressives especially, every single election, from the small to the large.
Because that's literally the only way you'll push out enough assholes for there to be actual legislative progress.
Nobody should be blaming you.
But I can promise you this will not get better by blaming the Democrats when they're not the ones holding us back...
It's the Republicans, and the only way to stop them is to tilt the numbers even further.
It's such bullshit to try to blame the demographic that's been saving our party's ass for decades.
Black voters, and in particularly black women, vote overwhelmingly for democrats.
I think black women typically vote blue at around a 10:1 or higher ratio.
White women are somewhere around a 5:4 ratio.
That means it takes about 9 white women to make the same impact of 1 black woman.
But god forbid their turnout dips a bit, especially in the face of rampant disenfranchisement, and suddenly people blame them as if we're entitled to have them carry us to victory time and time again.
It's a terrible way of looking at it.