Sounds like a reverse Brusilov Offensive from WW1.
There the Russians sent out highly skilled squads to probe for weaknesses in the Austro-Hungarian lines, blow them open, and then the human waves come through.
It proved so effective that Austria-Hungary almost got knocked out of WW1 and the Brusilov Offensive is considered to be the greatest Allied victory of WW1.
However, the Offensive was still costly for the Russians - so much so that it contributed to the Russian Revolution a year later.
So imagine that, but the Russians made zero progress.
That's basically what's going on in Ukraine right now.
I'm pro-Ukraine in all of this, but this shouldn't ever be forgotten..
While Ukrainian nationalism right now is a good thing for liberation.. Left unchecked after the war, it could devolve into something more dangerous.
The situation was completely different 80 years ago, but the threat of nationalism is still real.
The Kremlin has worked hard for the past decades hijacking nationalist movements in foreign countries or sprouting their own movements that usually have the nationalists turning on their own countries governments.. Look at January 6.
Look at the NRA being infiltrated by Russian spies.
Look at the Spanish nationalists who were just instructed to try to overthrow their government by their Russian handlers.
It is a very real threat.
Nationalism has its place as a tool to liberate in wartime, but it is not a good ideology in peace-time, and will end up having destabilizing effects if left unchecked.
Don't forget operation Barbarossa and the Ukrainian auxiliary police who collaborated with the Einsatzgruppe in pogroms.. And Vinytsia.
Ukraine largely collaborated with the SS during the Holocaust.
In the (mild) defense of the Ukrainians during WWII -- they were caught between the USSR that had already been steadily genociding them and the incoming Nazis.
As the Soviets pushed westwards into Central Europe, the Soviets were more effectively able to set conditions of battle and gradually got the upper hand against the Nazi German soldiers.
It was the Germans accumulating more casualties by that point.
I might be mistaken but I believe that documentary was based on Norman Oher's book on narcotics in Nazi Germany.