People uninterested in politics should not be voting anyway, plus it’s already extremely easy to register.
Mandatory registration seems like a fix to a problem that doesn’t exist.
I’d say there’s nothing wrong with being a doomer when it’s so blatantly obvious that this country runs on division.
Every dilemma presented to us is meant to elicit a response from both extremes of the political spectrum.
I completely agree with you, if the GOP falls it will only be replaced with something not-so different, and possibly worse.
I’ve of the opinion that eventually the republicans will fall, but who will they be replaced with.
I guess I’m a doomer in this regard, there will always be a split no matter who’s in charge.
Right now it’s terrible obviously and the traitors need to pay for what they’ve done.
But I never see is what will happen afterwards.
And that’s why we shouldn’t cut the small states out entirely, a different system should be in place, I don’t have the answer but what’s to come, we shouldn’t alienate everyone that’s not living in blue cities.
If the gop disappeared tomorrow it would only take about a year to have the division be between central democrats and progressives.
That’s my opinion on it.
Honestly I e thought about it, I'm not against it...
In practice it would be possible to give representatives office space I federal buildings in each state for day to day stuff, use remote voting and teleconference systems, etc.
Part of the reason I like the idea of increasing the size of the house of representatives is because it would almost certainly blow up the two party system.
Yeah, expanding the house of representatives, and getting ranked choice voting in place in every state is the best we can hope for without constitutional amendments.
No chance in hell that will happen, we could increase the house to around 2000 representatives... technically it would only take a federal law to do that, and it would wipe out the small state advantage and be good for politics in general...
Also, check my flair, from a small state...I'm not saying we should disenfranchise small states, just saying voters in each state should have something close to the same electoral power...
As it stands folks in smaller states have way more say in presidential elections than the founders intended.
It would just be ensuring equal representation in the house, the Senate would still be tilted toward small states, and small states would still retain more political power per person through the electoral college, even if that edge is lessened.
If they had wanted this lopsided they would have made it this lopsided, they chose to give small states an advantage, and they would still retain power in the Senate that would balance out the larger states.
I agree the Senate is important in balancing large vs small, but that's exactly why the house should function as designed, and provide equal representation Per Capita.