Getting sick of all the idiot trolls in these threads doing the "wHaTaBoUt tHe UnItEd StAtEs" bullshit.
First off, fuck all of you.
Next, a second pile of shit doesn't make the first smell any less.
Nobody's making excuses for the US government's action.
Fucking pay attention, we're currently on Russia, in Ukraine, and their crimes.
Yes I believe Russia has committed war crimes in Ukraine.
Same for USA, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and so on.
As I said before, I want international rules applied equally to everyone.
Rules which apply to some, but not to others, always leads to countries thinking they will get away with it, this time.
Thus continued wars and genocides.
It depends on your definition of genocide.
My definition would include the Armenian Genocide (which USA recognized more than 100 years after the fact), the Holocaust (which USA promised to never allow to happen again) and the Bangladeshi Genocide (where USA actively supported the Pakistani perpetrating the genocide, providing military assistance and diplomatic cover).
It would not include the war in Ukraine, which is a pretty standard war.
If you would use something like "intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group", it would include what the Russians are doing.
But USA definitely killed some Iraqi and Afghanistani people, which are part of an ethnical group, so USA tried to destroy the group in part - specifically the part fighting against them.
Not much different from what Russia is doing right now.
That definition is useful for drumming up support for your cause, but useless for rational discussion as each murder can be defined as genocide.
In the present Convention, genocide means any acts committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.
Your examples in Iraq and Afghanistan show no 'intent'.
Atrocities happen in every war by every country, that's why countries should avoid starting wars in the first place, but in the cases of Iraq and Afghanistan, the US did not invade with the intent of eliminating the Iraq and Afghan peoples identities while trying to erase their countries existence from the history books.
Russian state run media on the other hand has actually publicly called for genocide in Ukraine and the elimination of their countries existence.
In actions they have forcibly relocated over a million Ukrainians to Russia, including some 250,000 children and have started removing any books referencing Ukraine in Russian occupied territory, all of which is clearly genocide.
Russia has launched a war who's main purpose is to erase Ukraine, so all in all it's quite different.