USC is a private institution, they have no mechanism to take her ill-gotten gains.
Also, you could wipe USC off the map, fire all their faculty and staff, and burn their endowment, it wouldn't add up to a trillion dollars.
That's a lotta money.
It's money well spent and invested.
Salaries for Americans.
Benefits for Americans.
Research that benefits Americans and employs Americans.
I always hate this shit anyway.
The US spends more per capita on healthcare than every other developed country.
We spend more per capita on education than most as well.
People trying to take from the military budget aren't thinking properly.
We are clearly spending our money very inefficiently.
Change the system, fix the system.
If you take from defense to put it to an inefficient system you're just wasting a lot of that money.
There is a lot of waste in the US military, yes.
A lot goes to defence contractors.
Also yes!
But generally, there’s waste in every government department.
A lot goes towards contractors in general.
It’s not a specifically military problem.
Given that, I think it’s silly to want to defund the military.
I’d prefer the US pull its weight by adequately funding its military, than to have it be deliberately weakened by cutting funding below the 3% of annual GDP it currently occupies.
I'd prefer the US pull its weight by adequately funding social programs, education, and infrastructure at home, because the wellbeing of its citizens is the only and ultimate purpose of government.
Whether or not military spending goes up or down in relation is only materially important if and when it becomes an obstacle to achieving that.
Have you entertained the idea that military spending declining and military spending still being more than is necessary or reasonable are not mutually exclusive?
The discussion to reduce military expenditure in contemporary times is very shortsighted and makes little sense.
The only reason it’s a discussion at all, is because the US economy is so large that $800 billion is something like 3% of GDP.