Let's tax you 90% of what you pay now (it would be some large fraction) and provide your health care.
Sure, you're saving money on what I assume would be the same standard of care.
But then people don't like it because "it's a tax" and "the gubmint" and death panels making your health care decisions.
As opposed to an "insurance company.
".
Yeah.
Agents make a killing off of those types of plans.
The exchanges have basically made agents obsolete for real, quality health insurance plans as all ACA-compliant plans that are available for an area are right there for a person to compare themselves rather than being hidden away from the public.
The second type of plan is a short term plan.
These types of plans have pre-existing condition clauses.
And you may say, "Well, I don't have pre-existing conditions."
But, what you need to realize is that they are short term plans.
You enroll in them every year.
Anything that occurred in the previous year is now considered a pre-existing condition and is no longer covered.
So, say you get diagnosed as a diabetic and need insulin in 2023.
The plan will pay for insulin in 2023.
When you enroll in the plan for 2024, the diabetes diagnosis is now considered a pre-existing condition and insulin is no longer covered.
For other serious illnesses (and even things like diabetes), they can deny coverage by just stating that the condition must have been a pre-existing condition because it could not have developed within the short amount of time the plan was in place.
ACA plans, must cover pre-existing conditions no matter when they occur and continue coverage for pre-existing conditions rather than start over at renewal.
I can guarantee you that everything definitely isn't covered how you're going to expect it to be covered.
It's just not financially feasible for a health insurer to offer plans with the same type of coverage as ACA plans for a lower cost without having numerous exclusions and clauses.
Why wouldn't they want to be listed on the exchanges to get even more customers, especially given that the government offers a subsidy for lower income individuals that would drive the cost of their plan even lower for people shopping the exchanges bringing in even more customers for them?
The answer is self-evident.
Because it's not quality health insurance.
In my experience with college interns that buy some of these plans, they fall into two categories.
The first is indemnity type plans similar to AFLAC that pay you a certain amount when you have an issue.
They are advertised in such a way that makes you think it's your cost for a service.
It'll read something like $25 for PCP visit or $100 for emergency room visit.
Well, that's the amount the plan will pay you.
You're responsible for the rest of the actual bill.
So, if the PCP charges $100, you end up paying $75.
If the ER costs $3000, you end up paying $2900.