ASML is yet another offshoot of Silicon Valley, except it happened to land in Holland.
Most of its suppliers are in the U.S., which is where the tech originated.
One of its biggest customers is Intel, and Apple, Nvidia, and many others are indirect customers because they're customers of TSMC.
Now that an enormous autocratic regime is hellbent on extending its influence around the world and applying advanced tech to the task of controlling its people and developing better weapons, maybe the Dutch people could rise to the occasion?
ASML is selling their machines as fast as they can make them anyway, thanks in part to the U.S. Chips Act.
Especially the newest high end machines can make chips that are faster and more energie efficient.
China (or any other country, really) does not have the knowledge to make or copy these machines.
So theyre left with inferior and outdated machines.
These older machines can be used to make chips for markets that dont require cutting edge chips, but they can’t make the fastest chips.
So china CAN make their own chips on their own machines, but from a competitive point of view theyre far behind the competition.
Do I think that economic interest doesn’t play a roll in the US’s push to limit Chinese chip capacity?
No.
It seems very reasonable to claim it does.
But, to say that the US isn’t motivated by spreading democracy, human rights, and freedom to any extent is fairy misguided in my view.
So, I gave reasons why I disagreed with that position.
And if so, I disagree with the structure of the argument.
The US can (1) care about more than one thing and (2) change their priorities over time.
Showing examples where the US acted against democratic interests does not entail that the US is never motivated by promoting democracy.
You are using examples of US foreign policy (supporting KMT, East Timor massacres, backing the same side as SA in Yemen) to argue that the US is not motivated to support democracy with its foreign policy.
Is this a correct interpretation of what you are saying?