He's such a transparent liar, you can even see the mental (in more ways than one) calculations behind this.
He knows Sinema and Romney are friends, so he picks Sinema here to undermine what Romney said.
And being called on his lies is relatively new to him, so he lacks the self awareness needed to know that he has to lie better now.
Funnily enough, that's one reason why I think might be the most plausible lie he's ever told.
Him just existing in Congress at the moment is a distraction to how utterly shitty she is.
So her telling him that is something I could actually buy.
The test is whether the lies from the Congressman claiming to be George Santos become more realistic or even more absurd from here.
Santos is probably lying bc that's what he does but doing stupid shit to endear herself to republicans is kind of simena's thing so who knows.
I would agree with this if Santos were just lying about the "right" things.
But the fact that he lies about everything makes him more of a liability than an asset to them.
Most speculate that the only reason McCarthy hasn't booted him yet is because of the GOP's slim majority and McCarthy feels it's more important to have a GOP member who's a liar but will still vote with him vs. having him replaced by what most likely would be a Democrat who would vote against him.
If the "Red Wave" hit, I doubt he'd have even been seated.
No he doesn't.
Pathological liars often cannot stop themselves from lying about even the most trivial details.
They often cannot stop lying even if they want to, and they don't even consider themselves as liars.
They do not have the self awareness needed to know that he has to lie better because in his own head, he may even believe that he's not lying at all, so has no reason to learn to "lie better.
".
Take a look whenever he appears on camera.
That is not the look of a man who knows he needs to learn how to lie better.
That is the look of a man who sincerely does not understand and is hurt over the question of why nobody believes a single word he says about anything.
I'm not joking, or being hyperbolic, sarcastic, or even trying to insult the man when I say that he is in some serious need of psychiatric help.
His criminal acts are likely to land him in jail where his lying is almost guaranteed to get him killed, or he's going to be removed from Congress and just end up continuing to lie about everything until something bad happens to him.
His best option would be to resign from Congress voluntarily and check himself into a mental health facility.
Doing so would also give him options that could be used when he's inevitably forced to defend himself in legal proceedings.