I watched part of his speech yesterday.
He started out talking about “territorial integrity” and basically threatening the world not to get involved in Taiwan.
Not very peace-plan-y.
IMO they don’t openly support Russia’s war because it’s a lost cause.
That’s the only reason.
What they say is irrelevant.
Ukraine is a wake up call that the west is not all talk.
To be fair this could work in Ukraine's favour.
China really doesn't like the idea of legitimizing territorial separatism as much as they want to support Russia.
China does not want to lend legitimacy to donbass independence at all, in this analogy China is Ukraine and Donbass is Taiwan, China absolutely despises separatism in all forms, they don't support Catalonia or Scotland, even tho those are technically "hostile" countries.
If they mention that Ukraine must give up its territory to Russia, then Kiev should simply counter with another UN resolution declaring Taiwan's independence on the same grounds that China invokes with respect to Ukraine.
They may potentially support Ukraine's territory unity, since any move to cede Ukraine land to Russia would directly contradict their ideas on territorial integrity with respect to Taiwan.
The only proposal that has a vague chance of being accepted would be return to pre-war borders, recognition of Crimea as Russian, and some kind of non-NATO security guarantee for Ukraine, plus substantial reparations from Russia.
Gets Russia out of Ukraine and leaves Ukraine no worse off geopolitically since getting Crimea back or joining NATO were unrealistic goals for Ukraine anyway.
Allows Putin to present it as a 'win' since they 'stopped' NATO expansion and won Crimea and he can frame reparations as being generous Russian aid.
Will help reduce Russian nationalist paranoia about NATO Russia's power declone and will limit the possibility of future Russian aggression since China will have a strong incentive to pressure Russia to stick to their peace plan.
Hopefully it will last until the Russian cold war nationalist generation dies out in politics.