I mean, it's all pretty simple stuff.
Stop introducing and passing policy that helps banks and corporations make more profit at the expense of the Middle class, and stop attacking anybody who disagrees with your political opinions racist, homophobic bigots.
Tends to drive away would be converts.
The right seems more accessible to many Americans right now because of the talk of fighting corruption(I am aware that talk is not backed by action, but often talk is all it takes to sway a vote).
A lot of poor America is angry, rightly so.
They're opportunities and the future of their children have been sold out from under them, and I hear a lot of rhetoric about tearing it down and starting over rather than fixing what is broken.
If democrats want their votes, they have to accept a wider range of political views, and most critically, they must reconcile the anger that many of these people are feeling, by both validating it and offering constructive rather than destructive avenues for them to express it.
It seems to me that what needs to happen, is that the partisan propaganda on the right that has been successful in manipulating these people’s minds by making out the democrats to be evil and who also spread lies like democratic lawmakers want to take away all of their guns, needs to be countered.
Democrats have to find a way to get through to these blue-color voters and show them that their lives are improved when they vote for democrats.
Democrats used to be THE party of blue collar workers.
Starting with NAFTA, which was a total stab in the back to hundreds of communities from MN to PA, and abandoning unions, the democrats really dropped the ball and it wouldn't hurt to draw these people back somehow..
Also, holy shit.
You've gone so far left that you went right... "Fuck everyone that isn't just like me.
".
Well yeah.
I just think that there is an irony in how the implication of your statement is that they should instead vote Democrat, but Bidens record is so right leaning it'd make Reagan blush.
In fact, Biden once sided with Reagan on overturning Roe vs. Wade.
He just supported breaking the rail worker union strike a few months ago.
Reagan infamously broke the FAA Traffic controller strike.