The money on which Europe and USA are living is the real blood money, plundering India and Africa for 2 centuries.
For more than half a century, USA, Europe and middle East supplied arms and military equipment to Pakistan.
USA has bought USD 1.8 million worth commodities including oil from russia since the start of war, UK has bought USD 1 million worth commodities from russia (majority being oil), Same with Germany, Netherlands.
What India has bought is miniscule, 0.5 million USD worth commodities.
Proportionately, India falls somewhere around 7th place.
That too when the population of India is equal to USA, UK, Germany and Netherlands combined.
You are asking the wrong question.
Indian government has taken a clear stand from the beginning supporting peace.
in the name of sanctions, the market for oil has become unfavourable for low and middle income countries, While the high income countries enjoy with the wealth they plundered for 2 and half centuries.
India would have stopped trade if European countries did it.
But no, Europe continues to import large amounts of oil and paying back in euros.
In fact, Europe buys more oil from Russia in one day than what india buys for the whole month.
Why is there such double standards?
Also, now since the Europe is under attack, everyone has empathy for Ukraine.
Where was this empathy for India when we were invaded by Pakistan and china?
Indo-pakistan war has been going on for 75 years now, and so is with china...
The world said "deal with it" to India when china annexed the whole Tibet region.
Why is that right but it's wrong when Indian leaders keep the interests of Indian citizens first?
So again, you argue that India was treated poorly in the past and you wish the world to recognize the injustice.
But then you turn around and you don’t give a damn that hundreds of thousands of innocent Ukrainians have died, and will die, in part because of the billions in new blood money your country is suddenly sending to Putin.
What a hypocrite.