IMO COVID is far more concerning with regard to pandemic potential.
Ebola would burn itself out.
Also being a more graphic disease, people would be more fearful of Ebola and actually take measures to avoid it.
However, there are two much bigger factors with Ebola that make it easier to deal with if it does somehow become airborne.
The first is that infected individuals can't transmit Ebola until they themselves are already showing symptoms.
So unlike Covid-19, people can't go around spreading it while being none the wiser.
The second factor?
Scientists say this is kind of an optimistic theory that has enough counter examples to not really work out.
It is in a pathogens best interest to evolve to become more infectious and less deadly, but that isn't guaranteed to happen.
Viruses and pathogens in general just evolve.
In general viruses evolve in tandem with hosts to be less severe but more long term over time.
Reason why a lot of our DNA is leftover junk from viruses that sometimes activate and play a role in background rates of cancer development.
Think herpes and mono.
Not too lethal but they hang around.
I mean ya by the same angle airborne HIV COULD exist.
Super deadly diseases tend to wipe themselves out.
Either they are so lethal they kill the host before it spreads or it wipes out the host species if it can also spread super well.
The most deadly virus kills its host before it has a chance to optimally spread.
Or makes them feel like crap so they stay home.
The virus with the best rates of spreading spreads the best.
Over time viruses that are not too harsh on hosts and spread easily like colds etc spread well and stay in the population.
The most likely situation is probably going to be something like Avian Influenza that finds a way to mutate in such a way to transmit between people.
Scientists have been warning governments/the public that it wouldn't be some huge evolution of the virus for that to happen either.
A harmless virus could spread to everyone in the world but it can't gain traits all at once like in pandemic.
If an individual of this species gains lethal traits it will have to spread to everyone all over again since the other varients will all still be harmless.