It's hardly unprecedented.
Get 100,000 of your own men killed in a war no one asked for, piss off the entire planet (including your allies like China) and tank your already-failing economy, and you give a lot of people reasons to want you dead.
I wonder about that.
When you get ultra-rich like the Russian oligarchs, you value stability more than anything else.
Aggression means volatility, and volatility means some or all of your income might disappear without warning.
Putin clearly had a chip on his shoulder with Ukraine, and felt like he had nothing to lose.
(Maybe the rumors of his illness had something to do with that.)
I don't think the rest of the Russian mafia state is so inclined, and certainly wouldn't make the mistake of concentrating so much power into one person again.
However what might happen is that a decredibilised Putin or a new leader of Russia would not have the same iron grip over the political class.
So a crisis like the would resolve differently.
This would mean that other offices of the Russian Federation, that have their own legitimacy, or certain oligarchs that can buy popularity in their own fief, would become much harder to touch for the presidency.
That doesn't stop Putin from taking what wealth that this first generation had still in Russia or having the FSB run around in the rest of Europe to deal with these oligarchs, but in terms of their influence on Putin, it is essentially non-existent.
The reason I think this other option is likely is that Putin didn't get to where he is today without knowing how to see which way the wind is blowing, at the very least in his inner circle, enough to pit the oligarchs against each other instead of against him.
Those closest to him are also those in the best position to take him out, so he'd be keeping a close eye on them for any inkling of treachery.
If it looks to be headed in that direction, he'll throw Wagner, Prigozhin, Utkin, and Pikalov to the wolves, saying it's part of a new anti-corruption campaign (as they always do whenever they need a scapegoat).