Why depend on State to issue ID for a Federal election?
Fed election law should mandate accepting an array of alternative ID for Federal office election, including a RealID issued by Federal Govt, pictures taken etc at any Post Office (as well as whatever the State wants to accept for its own concurrent elections).
Why would there be?
Wouldn't affect "time, place, or manner" of the election; as I'd imagine it, it'd just be an alternate form of ID and only mandated as an acceptable alternate for the Federal election.
I guess a State could try a claim that the Fed was granting IDs recklessly, thereby potentially granting a vote to someone who shouldn't vote, and thus damaging their true voters?
Or that the mandated acceptance alters election process (to verify those Fed IDs) so they want funding for the change to forms/systems?
They could try what they have used on speed limits and other issues and only mandate it if a state takes federal money for elections.
They can choose not to follow the rules but they don't get the money.
That maneuver though has an iffy track record in court.
It absolutely would affect the manner of elections.
Courts have consistently ruled that manner of elections means the rules of elections.
Which id to accept falls under the rules of the election.
I'm not saying I agree with it but that's how the courts have ruled.
The supreme court has yet to recognize a right to vote unfortunately.
They have enforced that there can't be racial disparities in voter laws, but still no recognized right to vote despite the 15th amendment mentioning it as a right.
We do that for cars because accidents are a massive risk with cars and licensing is limited to accessing public roads.
Accidents are not really the issue with firearms so not really a solution to have licensing/training.
Requiring a license to buy a gun and that gun is attached to your license.
To get the license you must pass a training class that is free or cheap to show competence with safety, security, and operation of guns.
The license also includes a background check.
That license is regularly renewed where a new background check is performed looking for criminal activity and mental health issues.
If your license is revoked guns must be turned in or sold.
I am also in favor of some kind of liability if your gun is stolen and used in a crime, but that would need to be constructed to encourage secure storage and reporting of thefts.
We already have training, licensing and registration for cars, let’s just treat guns the same way.
I'm all for training and licensing for owning a gun just like driver's licenses.
However, just like driver's licenses a state should develop an agency that handles the training and licensing not just expect the police to do it.
As someone who supports defunding the police and stopping them from doing the jobs of social worker and mental health professionals, why on earth would I want them to have to do this job too?