edit: for those curious, the Roman Imperial Cult (yes, that is its historical name) was mandatory for all under Roman rule during the Roman Empire.
The Jewish people were granted an exemption because of the age of their religion.
Romans held a lot of respect for venerable gods and religions.
No, only Roman citizens were subject to the Imperial cult.
The same way only rights applied to Roman citizens.
Slaves, freedmen, conquered areas with authorized native populations, women, Germanic tribal people's, and any other non-citizen authorized occupants followed their own religions.
Most historically polytheistic societies followed such a model, even today (such as India and Pakistan, who both have large populations of Christians, Muslims, Hindus, and various sects of all three.)
Citizenship in Rome conferred both rights and responsibilities, and not every conquered peoples or immigrant community was willing to accept them.
Actually, the first claim of one Abrahamic religion's superiority to another is still an ongoing battle, and it continues even to this day and is somewhat relevant to a (relatively) newish hostile relationship between Jews and Arabs in the middle east today versus centuries of relative co-existence... that of the Samaritans vs. the Hebrews.
Thousands upon thousands of years of hostility with no real end in sight, if the world ever saw a true "religious" war, that was and continues to be it.
All the other pretend religious wars are really about resources and territory in some form or fashion, those two camps are purely divided along theological lines that boil down to the most minute differences that most.people would deem inconsequential (most normal people, anyways.
).
True.
Bar Kochva was the last of the 3 Jewish-Roman wars ending in 136CE.
But that didn't involve any other Abrahamic peoples so what does that have to do with anything?
The battle of Kahybar was an interesting read but still was a very isolated incident.
So I'm only a little wrong... 1 local incident of Jewish conflict with other Abrahamic peoples between Roman times till the modern era.
Edit: Oh, and there were also some Jewish revolts in the Roman empire post-Christianisation, as the other commenter points out.
You’re right, I was more trying to stress the origin of supersessionism and why the christians thought they needed to replace the Jews in the eyes of the Roman government.
There were maybe 100 years of good relations when Christianity first came into the picture and then supersessionism reared its head and the Christians told the Romans that actually they deserved the special exemptions from the Roman state religion, not the Jews.
Since they were actually the inheritors of the covenant.