Suppose they are maintained horribly and 99 of 100 fail to reach their target.
That’s still 60 nuked cities.
That’s a lot of destruction.
These aren’t little bombs like Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
“Russia possesses a total of 5,977 nuclear warheads as of 2022, the largest stockpile of nuclear warheads in the world”.
Russia does not have enough nuclear warheads to hit every US target With one, because some of those warheads are assigned to targets in the EU and in other countries.
So the 2100 is a fair guess.
That Russia is rapidly burning thru cruise missiles, is good, because that also goes into equations involving targeting.
Some of the 9,000+ targets in the hypothetical OPEN-RISOP list are thermal power plants, the same type that are currently being hit in Ukraine.
I would (gently) suggest that you look around GitHub for a project titled OPEN-RISOP.
That is a simulation of 2100 warheads targeted on the USA.
This is the red team approximation.
There are three scenarios represented: Counter-Force, Counter-Value, and a combination of CF+CV.
Counter-Force being an attack aimed at strategic assets and the immediate supporting facilities.
Counter-Value is roughly what is being wrought upon Ukraine now.
The trade off CF+CV is a blend of the two.
It is also interesting that some targets (of which there are 9,000+) do not have a fallout pattern associated with them.
My presumption is that those targets are neither hardened nor have a wide land area.
An example is a natural gas compressor station.
They do not need a warhead, but could be sufficiently damaged by a conventional cruise missile warhead.
When Russia was using nuclear capable cruise missiles a few weeks back, there were substantial comments that the debris field around the impact contained no radioactive material.
Apparently Ukraine (or someone with long range weapon identification capability) realized rather quickly what type they were, and wanted to tell equally quickly if they were a deliberate non-warhead payload, or a real payload that failed to detonate.
Crappy world we live in when those questions need to be answered in minutes.