Unfortunately, since we'd need to train a couple of hundredthousand new doctors and as there probably wouldn't be enough suitable donors, such an effort would be curtailed by the boundaries of reality.
The numbers involved are only to illustrate the size of the problem and that this is not a viable "cure" for AIDS.
This will require a lot of extra research and a working cure for AIDS could still be years in the future.
While I welcome any person to be cured from a serious medical condition, the cost-benefit ratio for this "treatment" is unfavorable.
A bone marrow transplant in Germany (where this treatment was performed) currently costs $228800.
This doesn't cover other costs like post-transplant care and medication.
If, however, a sufficient number of donors and enough teams of doctors were available, we might cure the suspected 38.4 million people infected with AIDS at a price tag of about 8.7 trillion dollars.
However, such a transplant is risky and might kill several thousand people in the process.
Still, it's not an impossibly large amount of money when compared to the world GDP of 104 trillion dollars in 2022.
The world spent about 2 trillion on defense in 2022 as a comparison.
......however, the mechanism which protects patients from the HIV-re-infection does offer some hope as the immunity of the CCR5 gene mutation might be "spliced" into the genes of infected people at a cost which could be affordable on a global scale.
It might even be enough to come up with a partial immunity-protection for the immune systems of AIDS-patients to reduce their reliance of "the cocktail" which suppresses the spread of the virus in infected bodies.
I'm just saying this method is not a path for a general cure, it's less about HIV and more about full bone marrow replacements - which as a side effect, "reboot" the immune system including the cells infected by HIV.
This "cure" is literally killing all your bone marrow (and therefore your immune system), and transplanting in bone marrow from a person who is immune to HIV.
The chances of finding a donor who is both compatible with you, and has the rare genetic mutation that make them immune to HIV is way less likely than winning the lottery.
And the chances of dying during this incredibly risky and complicated procedure are high.