"Streisand filed a lawsuit against photographer Kenneth Adelman and Pictopia.com for violation of privacy after his aerial photograph of her mansion featured in the publicly available archive of 12,000 California coastline photographs.
Before the $50 million lawsuit was registered, “Image 3850” had been downloaded from his website only six times, two of which were done by Streisand’s lawyers.
However, if Adelman had merely jumped the fence, public knowledge of the case obliterated it altogether.
The following month, more than 420,000 people visited the archive and downloaded the picture.
".
True.
Indians have to come out of the victimhood mindset.
Look at Vietnam.
Buggers were colonised by the French and then attacked by the US.
I don't see them complaining a lot.
Haven't watched the documentary myself.
The documentary is about the Godhra riots in the Indian state of Gujarat.
The chief minister of Gujarat at that time was Narendra Modi, the current PM of India.
He had been widely criticised for his role during the riots.
Though many cases were filed against him, the judiciary system has largely maintained that he is not responsible for it.
Now the BBC has taken a more critical take on it and Mr. Modi is worried and has sought to ban the documentary.
Me seeing everywhere that Modi wants to shut documentary down and trying to forbid people from watching: Oh we're watching this!
Edit 2: I’d also encourage people to watch the documentary, Final Solution by Rakesh Sharma which was also banned in India when it was released in 2004.
The courts consistently ignored the victims and their families and gave government officials a pass while arresting and harassing advocates for the families.
Modi boys consistently fall back on this acquittal as an argument.
Everyone knows he’s guilty of being complicit in the mass murder of Muslims in Gujarat.
It’s what got him elected to be a PM.
He’s just embarrassed that the rest of the world doesn’t see things that way and he’s getting shamed on that stage.