Isn't the majority of Latinos in the US Catholic and once the divide between Church and State (which is fading fast) won't they find themselves in the "wrong" category for Christianity?
It will be the Evengalics that would most likely plan on taking over and they won't tolerate other forms of religion, especially Catholics (which they see as being non-Christians).
But what I am talking about is that right now there are legal protections to be a version of different Christianity (and also different religions or atheism) but if the Religious Right gets its way then they will most likely set up a state religion that won't agree with Catholicism and probably impose some kind of test/law stating that you have to be an "X" and as we move further away from the 1st Amendment we will eventually end up state religion and they will turn on all of the "religious" collations right now.
So Catholicism is more or less going to be outlawed and/or banned (or people will lose their civil rights) along with the other religions.
Yeah.
Fascists/authoritarian types usually end up betraying their so-called allies.
That's what I am saying.
Oh, and they don't like brown people.
They will turn on the Latinos who vote for Republicans because of their race and religion (they also don't like non-Anglo cultures as well).
A lot of Hispanics are social conservatives and the loud chanting by the progressives on everything they believe just shows a large portion of Hispanics how different they are from them.
It's not just Hispanics turning away from democrats.
Every single POC group is turning away from the dems right now.
Even black support is waning.
This is a fact.
But now the chants of defund the police - it's really extremism.
The latinx comments show how out of touch and different the dems are from the Latino community.
As an Asian myself, the word bipoc drives me nuts as both asians and Hispanics have been erased from the word for minorities.
Hollywood now elevates black people but Hispanics and asians are still underrepresented according to the Hollywood diversity report and quite clear in most tv shows and movies where you now see many blacks but still barely any hispanics/asians.