They won't: the history of strategic bombing is one of failures.
Even the Hiroshima nuclear bomb didn't lead to an immediate Japanese capitulation - they were still thinking they might negotiate favorable surrender terms.
The plan up until Nagasaki was to make taking the Home Islands so costly that the Allies would come to the negotiating table instead of insisting on unconditional surrender.
To that end, Japan had conscripted virtually their entire population and were packing Kyushu with them, including schoolgirls and children armed with bamboo spears, bows and arrows and awls.
This was Operation Ketsugō.
Ketsugō remained the plan for the Japanese right up to Nagasaki; they didn't change it after Hiroshima.
So why did the second bomb make them change their minds?
Well the Japanese had a nuclear program of their own, though it made even less progress than Germany's.
The main problem was that the Japanese and the Germans had estimated that the amount of fissile material you'd need for a bomb was quite high; ten times what the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs actually used.
Given the extreme difficulty of producing that much enriched uranium or plutonium, both Japan and Germany more or less abandoned their own atomic programs during the war.
But it did mean that when Hiroshima happened, Japanese high command knew very quickly that it was an atomic weapon.
It was just that from their perspective, one atomic bomb didn't really change the strategic situation.
Given how hard the Japanese figured these bombs were to create, the United States wouldn't be able to produce them in large quantities.
They weren't discussing surrender, they were discussing peace.
They wanted to negotiate an outcome that saw them hold onto at least some of the conquests they'd made in South East Asia and China, most of which they still held when Hiroshima was bombed.
They were already in discussions with the allies about ending the war before the bombs were dropped but Japan was refusing unconditional surrender or whatever you want to call it.
The bombs were to force unconditional surrender and to end the war before the soviets got there.
There was a lot more going on than "big boom made Japan surrender".