Canada has, or at least had, 80 or so.
They were being used as target practice starting a few years ago.
If any of them dodged that fate I hope we can send them too.
Because they are available and comparable to many older tanks Russia is fielding.
Even older and obsolete tanks have proven useful to both sides on lower intensity fronts.
Of course they did, it's western armor philosophy to have better tanks and crews, but that doesn't work if you have to match 1980s tank with 2011 tank.
It's the core of the issue, western armor has to be better to preserve crew, as western tanks require far more training and preparations which is compensated by tank being better, but Leo 1 A5 is worse.
The whole philosophy around it is now faulty, western tanks are complex and require a good crew, well trained and prepared, that takes time, so the crew is considerably more valuable then the tank, while soviet tanks are simple and meant to be driven by conscripts with limited knowledge.
USSR had a huge army and could not prepare its troops to the same level so it's kind of quality vs. quantity situation.
The tanks themselves embody that, T72 is light, quick, has autoloader, shells in the turret, less crew 3 and less armor, while M1 and Leo 2 are heavy, have more crew 4, the ammo is sealed in a protected compartment that aims to save crew in case there is a cook off, armor is stronger and generally they have better components.
Not to mention that the tactics are very different and those compliment that philosophy.
So if I were to simplify it - western tanks supposed to be better to win.
They aim to preserve life of the crew, that is why Ukraine wants it, Ukraine needs to have low losses, it can't win in any other way, if that doesn't happen Ukraine just loses because russia had more bodies.
M1 Abrams and Leopard 2 do exactly that.
this is true for the modern leopard 2 version.
the old leopard 1 tanks this is about weren't part of any public debate in germany and it was inferred that all stockpiles of usable military material was low or depleted.
Perhaps that was true before they lost 3000+ tanks (at least, according to the Ukrainians, there's publicly available visual confirmation on at least 1600), they're dipping into their reserve stockpiles now and a lot of that isn't gonna be modernized or post-soviet.
It's just a an obsolete tank, Ukraine shouldn't use it crews on this, they asked for M1 and Leo 2 which do exactly what is needed, Leo 1 doesn't, it's worse than what Ukraine already has.
If you understand the issue then the offer alone is an insult: "here, use these, they will put your crews in peril and do everything you don't want but you'll get "western" tanks.
".