The funny part is that kind of tactic may have worked in the old days when you fought eye to eye with your enemy, but nowadays their swarms of men.csn be taken out at range.
2) NATO responds with nukes, which is unlikely and then we all lose and no one is alive to claim who really won or lost.
NATO has already said the use of a tactical weapon would not generate a nuclear response from them.
It would illicit a full conventional confrontation which they would then learn about what fighting NATO actually is.
No but I’m sure judging by russias conventional forces their nuclear forces are not as ready to go as they claim.
If Russia nukes Ukraine and we sent conventional troops over there, what makes you think we wouldn't become a nuclear target too?
In this hypothetical Putin just showed the world he'll respond to conventional war with nukes.
If Russia uses nuclear weapons that’s it.
One nuke launches and there will be a dozen in response.
Of course Russia wouldn’t take that lying down either and regardless of the incompetence of their military I refuse to be liege we know every launch site they have and even if we did I refuse to believe we have the capability to hit them all before launches occur.
Even if we did the nuclear response from NATO would likely cause enough damage and fallout to push us into a miniature nuclear winter and then we’ve got a lot more problems than we did before.
The problem is the fallout from even a small nuclear detonation in Ukraine could very easily hit NATO country’s and at that point Russia has used a Nuke against NATO even if indirectly.
People don’t realize how tightly packed many of the country’s in Europe are.
Ukraine is not a particularly large country, and because of its shape there aren’t many areas in Ukraine that are terribly far from a NATO border.
Even less points within Ukraine that aren’t close to a NATO border would be worth hitting with a nuclear strike.
The most likely use of nuclear weapons from Russia would be a small tactical nuke.
But tactical nukes can be as large as 100 kilotons.
For context the Chernobyl event was equivalent to 0.3 kilotons and the exclusion zone for that covers 2,600 km^2 ……..