For what it's worth, the cross is more a symbol of the suffering and sacrifice.
Martyrdom was a huge part of the early church, so it makes sense that this is a symbol that would have been embraced.
i cant speak for the mary part of the catholic church as im not catholic but worshipping the crucifix is an easy one.
Back in the older days of the faith, they changed symbols constantly that meant different meanings depending on where they are adopted from.
At one point the faith used a pentagram due to its spiritual connection to the elements and the human soul.
In response, an inverted pentagram came to exist as an anti church protest symbol.
response?
they made the inverted pentagram a satanic symbol.
You see the same treatment of the Cross and inverted cross.
Different Crosses have been used by different sects, some of which were denounced by each other.
The Ichthys or jesus fish is just another symbol adopted by a Jesus oriented faith even though its origins date back to the 2nd century, its gotten more popular in the modern day due to the darker nature of the cross.
It was actually used BEFORE the cross/crucifix was adopted, around the 11th century and really took off in the 14th.
So they didnt really start that whole crucifix shit till a good 1000 years after jesus, most likely as a form of intimidation and control.
to quote "In the 1970s the "Jesus Fish" started to be used as an icon of modern Christianity.
In 1973 the symbol and message was taken to the Aquarius Rock Festival in Nimbin, Australia.
Today, it can be seen as a decal or emblem on the rear of automobiles or as pendants or necklaces as a sign that the owner is a Christian.
Versions of this include an Ichthys with "Jesus" or "ΙΧΘΥΣ" in the centre, or simply the Ichthys outline by itself.\[24\] According to one writer, while many Christians hang a cross necklace or rosary inside their vehicles, "the fish sticker on the car is a more conscious symbol of a witnessing Christian—significantly, unlike the former, it is on the outside of the car for everyone to see.
".
Here's the thing.
Symbology is literally literature.
I'm using symbology (which spell check says I'm spelling wrong ffs) to communicate with you, and you with me.
Did I steal the word symbology?
No, I'm communicating something.
Same thing when I play you a melody.
Like John Lennon said, paraphrasing... it comes from the universe and goes back into the universe, and I'm just a vessel.
So are you.
So is everyone.