US conservatives have historically held classical liberal ideologies, but at the fringes, some conservative intellectuals are proposing a return to conservative conservatism, ie, ethnostate, monarchy, and traditionalism, ideas which were once unthinkable in the US, a country founded on classically liberal values and whose members hold those values sacred.
But I'm curious now what you think of MAGA and the new movements from the right.
I'm assuming you wouldn't call them conservatives given they wish to fundamentally change the character of so many institutions, so what you would call them and or what is your opinion of them?
I shall name a name, Adrian Vermeule, who proposes what he calls "" as a replacement for originalism, though upon further research, my memory has failed me and he is a fringe scholar.
His ideas have received mixed traction at best, and I concede I am making a slippery slope argument.
My argument is in essence, "originalism today, judicial precedence tomorrow.
".
not really.
for 90% of the US population, a trans individual has to be extensively questioned about their gender dysphoria by a therapist and a doctor before they can get trans healthcare.
I would like to have an open discussion about how claiming you have gender dysphoria does not necessarily mean you are trans, especially if you are experiencing the dysphoria during puberty.
That being said, anyone who questions their gender or feels dysphoria, especially around the time of puberty should not be given puberty blockers or hormonal treatments.
How is it determined that the questioning is actually because of trans-ness or because of normal dysphoria that occurs with puberty?
Or perhaps due to some other undiagnosed trauma or process (e.g.
autism spectrum, severe depression, etc.
).
I mean, he is.
Banning gender affirming care prevents people from treating dysphoria and will likely lead to minors committing suicide or ruining their mental health.
I don’t see how proven, effective treatment is “toxic”.