\-That Ukrainian leadership would be quickly deposed, allowing pro-Russian Ukrainians to assume positions of power under a veil of propaganda.
Even if they managed to beat Ukraine's military and absorb the entirety of Ukraine, they'd still have large uprisings and large portions of the country refusing to recognize Russia's authority, instead forming governments of their own.
The US has been involved in many wars and coups, some of it justified and many of them were not, In this case though and getting back on topic, the invasion of Ukraine is almost entirely on Putin.
Ukraine has known since the 2014 seizure of Crimea that there would be a phase 2 of the invasion and so has the West, and the West has spent that time trying to persuade Putin not to attack Ukraine.
That's why there were the Minsk agreements, that why Germany started becoming more dependent on Russian gas instead of less as they were trying to use economic incentives to keep Russia in line.
Secretary of State Clinton even did a ridiculous "reset button" photo-op with Lavrov back before the seizure of Crimea when we are still trying to forgive Russia for their attack on Georgia.
First off I think only the US believed a Russian invasion was imminent, but also if both sides agreed with the premise on how the war would go there was little they could do deter the occupation of Ukraine, especially when NATO is also doing everything they can to avoid escalating into a nuclear war with Russia.
Threats of sanctions weren't going to deter Putin, he was already saving to outlast sanctions for eight years and the price of oil was at record high.
Maybe getting Ukraine to join NATO might have worked, except there wasn't universal accord on that course of action which was needed for NATO membership (plus other requirements Ukraine might not have met).
First off, Ukraine was hardly any closer to joining NATO than when they were denied membership (along with Georgia) back in 2008 and after some vague promises about future membership even those were dropped by the US.
Secondly, there was no fact, just opinion about what Russia would do.
Russia invaded Ukraine despite not being anywhere close to membership and not because of it, and when Ukraine offered to rescind their application to NATO as an offer to start the peace process in the first month after invasion Russia would have none of it.
Yes after Russia invaded in 2014 taking Crimea as well as parts of the eastern Ukrainian districts of Donetsk and Luhansk Ukraine realized that they had problems with their military if they expected to fight against Russia.
They approached the US and other NATO countries asking for help improving their military.
They retrained and restructured along NATO lines.
They had training with anf from several NATO members the US included.
Ditching their old Soviet style methods and organization did wonders for them.
And they really embraced the change despite it meaning canning high ranking officers who could not adapt.