Makes me wonder what was in Ivana's casket.
I hate to lapse into conspiracy theory territory, but burying an "empty" casket on a golf course for someone who was supposedly cremated seems a bit unusual to me.
Even if she wasn't actually cremated, it's still a really unusual choice, especially considering their estranged relationship.
Then again, what do I know.
Oh for sure.
I have no doubts about that.
If there is one thing I can attest to is the tediousness of government bueracracy, especially in regards to any level of classified documents, including FOUO documents.
Records retentions for FOUO and above is such a pain, because it's like, why do I need to keep a training doc that will be used once and has to be updated next year anyways, for several years.
not to mention, there are loads and loads of agencies at everything from local governments all the way up to federal level that haven't digitized their documents that have to be accounted for.
If people truly understood how government bureaucracy works when followed properly, they'd have a lot harder time believing conspiracy theories about multiple levels of government quickly working together to coordinate ANYTHING.
That's not say it doesn't or hasn't happened, but it's a lot more complex than it is perceived to be.
It's why authoritarianism and fascism are so effective at subverting democracy.
Democracy is a very slow process and if you can convince people that fascism is faster and more effective to get immediate results then you can convince them to democratically dismantle democracy.
In normal circumstances I'd agree with you.
But these files were stored very insecurely and to my knowledge, there is no trail of what the location of those paper files were, between the time they left the white-house and the time they were recovered.
To the best of my knowledge there is no way to know that a portable scanner wasn't used at an unsecure location to duplicate/upload documents to a third party and then the scanner completely destroyed beyond salvage resulting in complete onboard storage failure.
Like, if Trump just used the M-A-L printer/scanner, then that could conceivably be picked up through forensic technology tools, but you'd have to be completely..... oh my god....someone load that scanner up and take it to the FBI right away.
e: I fully admit though, that I could be mistaken on this, as I know paper and scanning technology is a lot more wild than people give it credit for.
It's why you can't just take dollar bills and print them off consumer printers to get perfect paper clones.