True.
But, there's a little more to the difference.
North Korea is still just a little piss-ant country with a nut in charge.
Yes, they have more of a military than that would normally suggest, and they have the potential for actual nuclear capabilities; but, they have little else.
They have no position or even a history of a position at the table with the rest of the world as a player on any front other than as a loud mouthed little bully shouting from the sidelines.
Maybe that's crazy of me to think possible.
But, at least with Russia it seems at least vaguely possible.
Whereas with NK, all I see is straight up crazy without even the possibility of sanity.
Now, yeah, the west also has to worry about what a China/North Korea variable will look like tomorrow.
So, no, I'm not saying that it's black and white clear that Russia is a player and NK isn't.
I'm just saying that Russia is still hanging on to a historical place as a world player, and NK has never had one.
That makes a difference.
Russia at least has played the game for a long time and still has people who know how to play it.
That means they can deal and, theoretically, be dealt with.
NK is just a dangerous, unpredictable little WTF.
Will Russia deal?
Who the fuck knows.
Putin is a psycho, no doubt.
But, I still play out little scenarios in my head where Putin gets taken out by his own people who see the writing on the wall, or where he backs down on Ukraine for some reason or other if he sees an out for himself.
Russia on the other hand has a history as a player.
Much as that position is waning, it's still true that they have cards left.
For example, Europe still has to consider their oil and mineral resources in the equation.
The US and the west in general still have to worry about what the China/Russia variable is going to look like tomorrow.
Etc.
Genuinely.
Their whole strategy is to throw a temper tantrum and demand aid in exchange not nuking the world because they can't actually produce the necessary goods for self sustainability, be annoying enough to get said aid because it's just easier than dealing with them, repeat in a few years.
Putin believes this to be a show of force, most likely...but in reality it shows the entire world how completely fucked he knows he is.