It's also that there is lot of training, logistics, learning from the battlefield.
It would be terrible to send them hundreds of tanks and have them captured by the Russians.
They would very likely just have been destroyed by russian air forces and anti-tank weapons.
Ukraine had very little air defense systems to protect their tanks and I am not sure they have a combined arms doctrine like NATO countries or the same system of tanks always being accompanied by infantry.
I think it was Turkey that just rolled Leopard 2s into a village without infantry support and then got them destroyed by shoulder mounted anti-tank weapons.
They are not invincible and it doesn't help Germany to send out tanks they themselves have too little of just to get blown apart or falling into russian hands.
If tanks were sent half a year ago they might have gotten torn to shreds by russian air forces because Ukraine had very little of that and just has been given a more substantial amount of anti-air systems recently.
Russia failed to destroy Ukrainian air defense during the whole time of the conflict, the both sides using their air force very sparingly.
Even when the conflict was close to the Russian border like in Kharkiv oblast where Ukrainian forces liberated the whole area, Russia didn't use their air force to help their troops, cause they didn't control air space.
Ukraine had very little anti-air systems but to be fair the russian air force seems to be standing off and refraining from most close air support for reasons I don't know.
If you just sent in tanks at the beginning of the war then a) they would have been pretty easy to destroy and b) they might have fallen into russian hands.
Remember that even experts were baffled at the incompetence of the russian military leaders and that the ukrainian forces were holding them off quite well.
In the end Scholz and the german government managed to get even more than anyone thought.
They kept their mouths shut, as they should have, while they negotiated and engaged in diplomacy behind the scenes.
This of course got the media and social media into a frenzy because they somehow believe that the public should be informed about everything that happens at all times, even if that is extremely detrimental to national security and the negotiations.
In the end Scholz even got the USA to promise to deliver a sizeable amount of their tanks.
And still people keep talking trash, misrepresenting and reframing what happened to suit their preconcieved biases.