Exactly this.
Ukraine could concede the Donetsk, Crimea, and remain neutral and there would be no more civilian deaths, but it would only make the situation worse for western (and eastern for that matter) Europe worse, and there are too many lives at stake.
But the only terms Ukraine will (and should) accept is the full withdrawal of all Russians from all Ukrainian land including Donbas, Luhansk, and Crimea.
If the West refused (or starts refusing) to support Ukraine's defense of their way of life & democracy, you'd not only see Ukraine toppled, but also Moldava (which was in Russia's invasion plans).
And China would be emboldened to attack Taiwan.
And North Korea would be even more aggressive with their saber rattling until someone shoots.
World War II started precisely because the democracies of the West refused to get involved until it was too late, after Austria & Czechoslovakia & Memel were annexed by Germany, & after Japan had assaulted China for YEARS & committed atrocity after atrocity...and in the case of the US, after Poland, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, & Norway were conquered by the Germans, along with nearly all of North Africa, & after the Japanese took over Indochina & had subjugated a full third of China's massive population.
Waiting until it matters directly to you typically means waiting until it's too late to save the lives of your loved ones.
If Italians (or Americans for that matter) don't want their soldiers dying, then they need to help the Ukrainians survive.
Unfortunately more than half of Italy's population is against sending weapons to Ukraine.
Surveys say at least 51% of italians are against sending weapons, some surveys says they could even be 60%.
Italy has a lot of anti-americanism both on the right and on the left, part of the left is against military aid to ukraine because they want peace at all cost, some of the right is against it because they lowkey root for russia.
So far the most pro-ukraine parties are Fratelli d'Italia (Meloni), partito democratico (moderate left) and azione - italia viva (small center left party).
Currently we have a right-wing government consisting in a big pro-ukraine party (Meloni) and two smaller pro-putin parties.
Even if the left had won the election we would be in a similar situation concerning Ukraine, the major leftist party Partito Democratico is pro-ukraine but the second most large leftist party Movimento 5 Stelle is against weapons to ukraine and is for "peace talks" (which means leaving all occupied territories to Russia).