I think you mean the whole middle east.
The whole point of making things war crimes is to keep everyone at the same level of morality, if your enemy isn't abiding by them, you can defend yourself without doing some things that don't look bad without the proper context.
For example, you can rightfully claim the Israel shoots rockets into civilian areas in Gaza, but because Hamas isn't following international law, there are legitimate military targets in the civilian areas which brings Israel to strike there to begin with.
But the reality is that it's been decades now where Palestinians (At least a huge % of them) hold incredible grudge against Israel, still refuse to even acknowledge it's right to exist and are under some delusion that they can still kick us out of here.
Palestinians need to realize that whatever leadership was/is in place there isn't working for them, instead of holding on to the belief that only Israel is to blame, and to blame in the amount the UN, among others, suggests, at least in subtext, but often blatantly.
The ones who lose to all of them are peaceful Palestinian protesters who are actually oriented towards a future of coexistence.
Until the Israelis and Palestinians stop thinking of the other as trash and the enemy peace is never going to happen.
I truly believe nothing will be solved until Palestinians as a society will be willing to admit that yes, Israel exists and is here to stay, and it's time to stop the violence.
All Israelis but extremists wanted peace from day 1, I really think the ball is in Palestinian's hands atm since after so much time and violence, we in the left have our hands kinda tied.
Nobody there really wants a one state solution (minus extremists on both sides which obviously would mean no fair state and either jews or palestinians disappear eventually).
And it puts Israel in a light that makes Israel ignore them entirely, and validates Palestinian propaganda that's extremely unhelpful to any sort of lasting solution.