Idk abortion had a pretty good effect on the midterms.
The Supreme Court making unpopular opinions it seems the American people can pretty easily distinguish which party to blame.
You make a good point but if you are someone who is need of debt relief and have on one hand biden pausing student loans and offering debt relief and on the other hand you have the Supreme Court canceling the relief and then you are just left with a party who will resume payments and a party who will keep pausing it; There is def some incentive there when you are already drowning in school debt.
why would you cite a pandemic emergency power as your legal basis for canceling debt instead of the higher education act of 1965 which many presidents past have used repeatedly to cancel student debt?
This was designed to fail from the get-go.
There’s zero reason for the court to uphold it now because Biden himself has even said the pandemic is over.
Why would we expect the man who made it so we can’t discharge our debt in bankruptcy to suddenly be our savior and cancel the debt?
They got the midterm votes, now the action will be struck down.
Ignorance is a strong word to describe people aware of the con game.
Right… and dems consciously chose to reject measures in the reconciliation such as free community college and a $15 minimum wage.
That’s my point.
They could’ve also at least tried to put debt cancellation in the bill but they didn’t.
That's not to say some student debt shouldn't be forgiven, but the comparison to the bank bail outs doesn't make sense since their loans weren't forgiven.
I am gen-x without college debt so this isn’t personal but we keep making life harder and harder for our children to the point they are the first American generation who will do worse than their parents and unreasonable student loans are a big part of this.
If generations are through no fault of their own forced to do worse than the previous generation that means America is in decline.
Is that what we really want?
A country in decline and no longer the land of opportunity it once was?