Voters are already done with the chaos and extremism.
And that's all Trump and his MAGAs will do for the next two years.
More than the ghoulish policy, voters are annoyed that the far right won't just shut up and stop acting like toddlers.
Elections are generally a referendum on the party annoying voters the most.
Until Trump and MAGA shuffle off, that will never be the Democrats.
It's going to be big republicans in disarray for the next two years, at least.
That's the good part about what happened.
They'll probably still investigate everything they can under the sun, but they almost certainly won't have the votes to impeach Biden and his entire cabinet since a good amount of the new seats are in Biden won districts in places like New York.
It would definitely be a million times worse if it was a big win for republicans.
I'm pretty sure they think it's a winning strategy because Benghazi investigations harmed Hillary, but that ignores several contextual facts like the right wing smear campaign on her since the 90s, the abstract nature of Benghazi, that Hillary was the actual politician in question, lack of any clear victim of Hunter Biden, and lots of people relating to Joe Biden dealing with addiction in his family.
I feel pretty confident that Americans by and large are going to see this as a waste of time and money after they promised to fix inflation and things like that (without any plan to do so).
No one is voting for Hunter Biden.
I doubt a Biden impeachment will pass.
With a House this thin, I suspect much of the current Republican leadership don’t want to rock the boat too hard on that lest it look too political.
Not to mention that many of the more moderate Republicans or some of the new freshmen might now want to harm their electoral chances.
With a 2-4 seat majority, will every Republican member fall in line or will the more moderate ones actually push back on the ridiculous things the party tries to do?
Democrats on the other hand seem fairly consistent on a lot of issues right now, and I suspect they’re already planning to hammer home what they see as “Republican extremism”, and with the House how it is, will be on the lookout for upcoming special house elections.
That being said, with Republicans in the bare majority, there is a chance that pro-impeachment Republicans can push an impeachment up the agenda, much to the chagrin of parts of GOP leadership.
If they can force a full vote, even if they don’t pass it, the blowback could be bad for them.