You never know if anyone you talk to is being sincere, and that leads to sincerity being perceived as insincere.
It's incredibly ass backwards and it's the reason I have social anxiety.
Everyone wears a mask in public.
The emotional kind, not the medical kind, mind you, you socialist you.
Not all of that socialist pussy stuff, like being kind to the poor, of course.
Just the parts where they get to be the alpha males and displays of cruelty to their "enemies," like anytime a woman has difficulty with a pregnancy.
She probably made bad choices in life and death or suffering, for her AND the child, is the punishment they deserve.
/s.
But you see, it's okay when the theocratic fascists do it because these fools in their hubris genuinely believe the Republican party is doing the work of the Lord, as if they were hand delivered scriptures and instructions from Christ himself.
This is the God fascist sycophants know and worship; a spoiled, petulant child, and traitor.
He's just like them.
Only he uses them and they use him to achieve their twisted fantasies.
The same is true of our highest court.
So, Justice Roberts, the ball's in your court.
How about you start making this country of ours a little bit safer.
From guns, and violence, from unchecked powers and the corruption it breeds, from the dictates of zealots, and hunger, and need.
So, sure, he and his court feel threatened, and they are justified in that feeling.
If a crazy guy traveled across the country with a gun and started hanging outside my daughters window, I'd be begging whoever I could for some police protection.
Especially if I thought I would get it.
People are angry -- look at these comments -- to a one they are all saying "you should be afraid".
The Supreme Court are not the only folks in government who feel that feeling, and it's perfectly natural to ask for protection when one feels it's needed.
An unbalanced, out of touch, conservative, judicial system should not be allowed to exist, free of the checks and balances fear inspires in those who pass our laws.
The will of the people is just that, a growl in the dark, to a Supreme Court system that refuses to acknowledge basic human rights in opposition to political and corporate interference on a local and state levels.