Yeah that’s a crock of shit right there.
Part of the perfect storm OP talked about is this kind of sentiment, which is also all over the place in OP’s list of reasons it was a perfect storm - the idea that Clinton was a great and deserving candidate that was only done dirty and held no responsibility for her and her campaign’s failures that led to Trump winning.
A lot of the criticism she received, like some of the specific things the OP talked about, were fully valid.
Clinton was a bad candidate who ran a bad campaign wrought with hubris, and she embodied what many people were sick of at that point in time - a status quo insider politician who secured the nomination largely in part because of her position within the party.
Trump’s campaign was smart to make the messaging about that and push him as the outsider who would bring change, and that resonated with people, especially moderates and swing voters.
Writing off any criticism or dislike of Clinton as nothing but misogyny is a thoughtless and pathetically reductive continuation of the same kind of problematic mentalities that led to her failing to beat Trump in 2016.
In 2016 I felt like many folks (who said they were) on the left were putting more effort finding reasons not to vote for Clinton than to look at or listen to reasons why they should, they're still doing that today, they have about a dozen cherries that they've picked out of her career to prove that she's entitled or conservative or part of the problem or the same as Trump, and frankly it was one of the most counterprogressive things I've seen on reddit.
People were willing to throw progress and policy to the wind because somebody told them that Clinton said it was "her turn" or that she was "entitled" or that her whole campaign was "I'm a woman, vote for me" or because she said super predators one time in the 1990's, acknowledged that she made a mistake, issued a formal public apology, and then never repeated the behavior, which proves that she's a closet racist.
"Clinton's campaign is 'I'm a woman, vote for me,'" and "she thinks it's her turn," and "she's acting entitled" are all ways to invalidate and ignore her decades of qualifications and experience, they're also an embarrassing mischaracterization of her and her campaign.
It's mostly that Clinton never said or implied that she was "entitled" to anyone's vote, suggesting that her campaign was based on "entitlement" is to ignore decades of advocacy and action on her part, and falls in line with Bernie characterizing her campaign as "I'm a woman, vote for me.
".