Russia doesn't really have that ability.
In theory yes, but it will fall even further.
Thing about russia is that for the most part, its economy is propped up by oil and gas.
This is why a lot of the metrics used for russia end up being misleading.
For example the economics for non gas and oil enterprises are failing.
Much of the required equipment companies need are not being replaced.
So that means as this goes on, more companies will shut down due to insufficient replacement parts.
Furthermore, much of their currency is propped up by control and limitation of their trading.
And on top of that, forcednuse of roubles currency to pay.
Now russia has planned in theory of dealing with sanctions from the weat and have adapted.
But it is 100% guaranteed that the extent of damage being done to their economy is very far reaching.
Plus more countries are finding alternatives to oil and gas which will hurt russia more.
Many countries are shifting their reliance away from Russian gas.
MNCs are pulling out of Russia.
Russia's also experiencing a brain drain.
They've lost close to 100k young men.
I don't see how Russia's going to recover from those things any time soon.
I’m pretty sure Ukraine doesn’t see it that way.
And it doesn’t look like financial markets see much of a distinction there either.
Predictions of a collapse were predicated on a collapse in oil and gas revenues which didn’t go down, but actually went up because of the supply crunch triggered by sanctions.
Those are the kinds of more complex second or third order effects that “simple” commentators (and even some subject matter experts) are just going to miss.
So yes, the war will likely drag on, especially with how Russia is attempting to “dig in” to solidify their current gains.
There is economic damage being done, and that will be worse with more recent drops in energy prices, but by and large their population seems willing to accept the necessary privations to continue the struggle.
How long they can ultimately continue is likely to be dependent on how quickly they deplete their existing stockpiles and how much of their manufacturing capacity can be diverted to wartime material production.