I agree they have things that we can't even imagine.
I'm just saying the 6th generation will not be ready for 10-15 years.
Even if it's done they spent 1 trillion developing the 5th generation they need to sell as many as possible before they release the next.
There is no point in rushing a 6th generation fighter to market as there is nothing to even compete with the f35 so why compete with yourself?
They need to sell as many 5th generations as possible before announcing the next is ready.
For all we know the 6th generation might be a flightless AI fighter.
Technology moves fast and if you don't think the u.s. military has secret technology you're delusional.
Also the b2 is not a fighter jet they play different roles.
These are fighter jets, if they have two engines it is because one engine does not produce enough thrust.
This isn't a airliner where the other engine is redundant.
Many CF-18's have crashed in the past due to one of the two engines failing.
Jet engines fail on a regular basis.
For the very most reliable jet engines ever produced, the ones on the newest widebody commercial airliners, the failure rate is supposedly only once per every couple hundred thousand flight hours, but there are so many airliners and they each fly 3000-4000 hours per year that it still happens regularly.
For this reason, commercial airliners are required to be completely safe even in the event of an engine failure.
Fighter jet engines are more complicated and have a greater emphasis on performance to weight ratio, so they have a much higher failure rate.
Canada has to patrol many thousands of miles of desolate wastelands and frigid oceans where it could take hours for a search and rescue operation to rescue downed pilots, and quit dreaming of being able to glide to an airfield.
A single engine fighter will result in several lost planes and probably a dead pilot or two just from totally expected engine failures, which would be avoided by a twin engine fighter like the F-18.
The problem is that there are no truly modern twin engine fighters available for Canada to purchase anymore.
This is still true, hopefully they end up gluing together fighters to get the double engine configuration we need, so we actually only purchased 44 F-70's.