The thing with refugees, is that they're just people.
People can suck, so some refugees also suck.
Plenty of people are great, so plenty of refugees are also great.
Yeah, they are not refugees.
No matter your iq level, all you need to do is to look at 'refugees' at Belarusian border and Ukrainian ones to notice there is a huge difference.
Ukrainian refugees are non violent and consist of women, children, sick and elderly, Mob at Belarusian border is mostly young men who attack Polish border guard.
Aren't most Ukrainian refugees women, children and older men - since men of a certain age aren't allowed to leave the country except under specific circumstances?
Or is that law no longer in effect?
I would like to help out Ukrainian refugees, unfortunately here in Germany they're somehow much less visible than the refugees in 2015 were.
And they by and large prefer to live in large cities where they can find Ukrainian expats already living there.
Despite efforts to the contrary, I've heard Ukrainians complain on TV that their registration process was complicated and it took weeks until they received their benefits, etc.
But that might also have to do with them flocking to big cities - like many seem to choose Berlin, but Berlin is as a federal state probably the most broke, worst organized of all federal states in Germany.
Interesting, thanks.
So a Polish thesaurus would not even need phonetic symbols representing the pronunciation.
But why do you need that many different accents combined with that many letters (including consonants) to transcribe the polish language?
In Polish language those accented letters are treated pretty much as separate letters, they have their own sounds, in dictionaries they have dedicated sections and they are all listed when you're reciting an alphabet.
Apart from that making a lot of sense in general, do you think there's anything characteristic about the Polish language that makes the use of these phonetically exact symbols necessary, like moreso than in other languages?
I don't speak Polish, so I haven't had much reason to listen to long Polish texts, but I think once I watched a show on Netflix that was from Poland and I abhore watching shows that have been synchronized, it's like once you've started watching films with the original tone, you notice how much sound is missing in synchronized versions and how the movement of the lips just doesn't match what you hear.