I'm in the "organized religion is almost always bad" camp.
Lots of people use it as an excuse to hate others.
But more importantly to me, if your morality is "be nice because God said so" and not "be nice because duh", then you're a shitty person and no amount of religion is going to change that.
Just be a decent person because it's the decent and simple thing to do.
Religion doesn't "make" anyone do anything, but it can certainly be a convenient excuse for doing nearly anything.
I much prefer "other people are just like you, so treat them like you want them to treat you.
".
.
He spews kremlin bullshit about NATO and Ukraine instigating the war and that the poor russians had no choice but to murder and torture civilians by the thousands.
The guy that claims to CNN that non ethnic russians are actually the ones to condemn for barbaric behavior in Ukraine?
Said that Nato provoked Putin to start the war by expanding?
Head of the church that is to blame for most of the pedophiles that accused said victims (children and their parents) of fabricating allegations?
You know what?
Fuck that guy.
Nah, fuck that.
The child buse ring is the kind of evil that would have me (a fervent atheist) afraid of God's wrath.
So to think an actual believer could tolerate and even perpetuate it's culture of silence and non accountability is unfathomable to me.
Yeah, the moral billionaire fallacy.
The kinds of people that wield this much power generally don't get it because they are great guys in the first place.
They have to be able to "play the game" in order to get into the position of power first.
I get that, buuut the entire premise for the pope is that he is in fact the one that knows the best.
So am I wrong to hold them to the same standard as they themselves would make us believe to be?
Agreed, but here we come to the pesky matter of whether his actions are "headed in the right direction".
Because it's kind of telling that the evidence for him doing "the right thing" is his radical opinion that child abuse is bad.
I mean, we have scandals like Francis knowing a certain priest is a pedophile because of the letters concerned parties sent to him, but he just kept ignoring it until the priest got caught.