I know Warren is excited, but let's not copy MAGA by worshiping Dear Leader and giving him credit for our works.
This victory is mostly because of women, especially young women, 45 and younger voters, Progressives (for starting to really turn out more reliably), and minority voters.
If it had been left up to white voters 46 and older this truly would have been a red wave or even a red tsunami.
The polls were so off because they didn't take minority and young turnout into their calculations nearly as much as they should have.
True about the margins, but that's what I meant about past Democratic Presidents being politically stronger and bigger party bullies.
LBJ had dozens of recalcitrant and obstinate Manchin-like Southern Democrats trying to block him and he managed to get them in check.
Depends on how far back you mean "modern".
I think Obama was better on the economy and healthcare overall (Biden hasn't even touched healthcare), but worse on foreign policy.
Biden has been pretty darn good on foreign policy, definitely the best on that front since FDR.
On economic policy....ehhhh.
Mid at best, not really doing anything to get control of companies price-gouging and using "Inflation" as their excuse.
He just asked them to stop lol He's way better than Trump, but that's like being taller than a 5 year old.
He's a weak President when it comes to leading his own party and getting them in line, as was Obama as well.
LBJ was the G.O.A.T.
on that front among Presidents from the past 55 years.
He wrangled, muscled, and bullied dozens of Joe Manchins and Kyrsten Sinemas (the Dixiecrats) into submission.
FDR and Lincoln were also the kings of that.
Biden is the Democratic President who speaks the most often about the working class since LBJ and Carter.
Clinton and Obama only talked about "the middle class".
I love Biden being the most pro-union President since JFK and LBJ.
That's awesome.
That’s awesome.
Don’t get me wrong, I 100% will not do something that gets an R elected.
When I can, I do things that push us towards a multi party system.
Then you get to in party politics.
A percentage won't think he's far enough left pushing those progressive policies, so they won't be happy.