Christ, fuck off with that “nutty mid west states” garbage.
If you saw something hovering over your home that you know shouldn’t be there and you only have the word of the Chinese and US govts to go off of, you’d be nervous too.
It was a balloon with tons of machinery hanging off the bottom of it.
Who knows what it was.
All we know is what two of the least trustful governments on the planet had to tell us about it.
Quit trying to make it sound ridiculous just to make yourself comfortable and make others look bad, what a crock of shit.
With modern technology being what it is and global tensions being what they are, making fun of people for getting justifiably nervous over a massive, unsanctioned “Chinese spy balloon” hovering over their homes and near military bases is a dick move.
It’s easy to say “Oh, those silly midwesterners!” with the gift of distance and hindsight.
Imagine seeing something like that drift over your home and all you’ve been told is it’s from a country we’re constantly dick-measuring against and that it’s not supposed to be there.
You wouldn’t be thinking “Lol, balloon.”.
Balloons aren't nearly as visible as, say, an airplane.
While pictures collected by a balloon wouldn't be any more valuable than those collected by the dozens of known Chinese Spy satellites.
There's a lot of signals intelligence that you could theoretically collect that doesn't get outside of the atmosphere.
Wifi, low power radio, background radiation, and the like that you can collect by balloon that you can't get with satellite.
This balloon isn't the first one they slipped over various US territory.
They were able to get four through before with no visible US response.
The first couple weren't noticed as they were transiting US airspace because there are legit weather balloons and they just ignored it.
This one was monitored from the beginning, because it was a mysteriously unscheduled one and when it began to jump between airstreams to keep above sensitive sites and hovered long enough for the general public to notice and start asking questions, well they decided to make a public statement about it.
There's no "gatcha" for them to be had here, unless they want to scuttle the first serious diplomatic visit aimed at deescalating tensions in years.
I mean, what political capital would they get?
The official statement form the Chinese side was that the thing was out of control and deep inside restricted American air space, the sort of air space that would see a commercial air liner intercepted by fighter jets and forced to land/shot down if it refuses.
Of course it'll get shot down.
During the Cold War the US floated dozens of those balloons over China and had a few of them shot down so it's not unprecedented.
we shot down a chinese spy balloon, that's all 98% of anyone will ever remember about this event, no matter what unfolds down the line.