I have no problem with Twitter as a source to get quotes from subjects — my problem is with Twitter as a source (especially the only source) for public opinion or reaction.
What point?
Is it that “wokeism” is a scourge on society, and we’re all doomed because suddenly being an ass or a bully is frowned upon?
Trauma is a wound.
Petty aristocrats like the royals have been getting “wounded” by far less for ages.
People have been speaking out for decades about how it feels to be repeatedly questioned about where they “really” come from just because they aren’t white.
We live in a world where skin color can be an all access wristband for some and for others a red flag that means you’re gonna have to provide documents every time you enter a new room.
At some point, some of those interactions are going to be traumatizing.
Civil rights advocates aren’t just fighting to get a few lunatic Klan members locked up.
Have you ever been invited to the palace as a minority who has been repeatedly asked this question over your life — often by people who are only interested in parsing out how you don’t fit in and are different — only to hear the same question from a representative of the royal family?
Maybe you have, and maybe your experience was different.
You weren’t traumatized.
She was.
Wanting to understand how and why trauma can result from this type of interaction is totally valid.
But “knowing” how we’d react to a certain situation isn’t enough to justify calling someone else a liar, which is sorta where we’re headed with this.
For a bad analogy, consider someone having an allergic reaction — you might brush off a bee sting as no big deal; but others might literally die.
Or someone who’s been badly beaten — one more hit could be lethal for them, whereas you’d be perfectly fine.
Well for many people they’ve taken hits their whole lives and one hit like this, in such a setting?
Of course that’s going to be traumatic.
So yes, this would be traumatizing, because the questions open deep existential wounds.
Work in your empathy, people.