The Florida Boards of Medicine and Osteopathic Medicine are not professional organizations.
They are political organizations with political appointments made by Gov.
Ron Desantis.
The problem with statistics is that it is often warped by the people using it.
Transphobes will use this exact statistic as reason for why we shouldn't offer gender affirming care for children because they reason that allowing kids to identify as trans during puberty increases their "risk of identifying as trans as an adult".
The laws they're trying to pass are so vaguely worded, the existence of trans and gender variant people is being classified as inherently sexual/"adult"/obscene/etc.
And if they are able to pass these bans on "performers" they are absolutely going to use it to attack us in every other area of public life too.
The "drag bans", the "bathroom bills", the attacks on trans youth and now adult's medical care, the attempts to pull information about LGBTQ but especially trans people from public scools and libraries, and everything else they're doing, they're working towards making the public existence of trans and gender nonconforming people a sex crime.
Wel, intersex and trans people have called for an end to "normalization" surgery, so a number of those bans on gender-affirming treatment specifically include an exception allowing "normalization" surgery.
: “In a cross-sectional study of 141 transgender patients, Kuiper and Cohen-Kittenis found that after medical intervention and treatments, suicide fell from 19% to 0% in transgender men and from 24% to 6% in transgender women”.
Citations on the transition's dramatic reduction of suicide risk while improving mental health and quality of life, with trans people able to transition young and spared abuse and discrimination having mental health and suicide risk on par with the general public:
: The ability to transition, along with family and social acceptance, are the largest factors reducing suicide risk among trans people.
The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression.
Early transition , and .
Trans kids who socially transition early and not subjected to abuse are comparable to cisgender children in measures of mental health.
The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression.
Early transition , and .
When prevented from transitioning about 40% of trans kids will attempt suicide.
When able to transition that rate drops to the national average.
Trans kids who socially transition early, have access to appropriate transition related medical treatment, and who are not subjected to abuse or discrimination are.
The largest pediatrics organization in the US, the American Academy of Pediatrics did and found that the best possible course of treatment for trans kids is to affirm their gender.
This isn't one study.
This is a systematic review of about 100 papers of research on the subject.