The historical test is bullshit.
If that's the defining test for Constitutionality, then Thomas should have his marriage voided and shouldn't be allowed any sort of power, especially on a court.
Women too.
Domestic violence would mostly become (legally) a thing of the past.
Historically courts were concerned with keeping the nuclear family together, not protecting victims.
And I guess that means we can get rid of labor law regarding children too.
Oh and safety regulations.
You know, maybe this historical precedent thing has got something to it.
It could certainly be used against Republicans.
Militia in the dictionary: military organization of citizens with limited military training, which is available for emergency service, usually for local defense.
If we go by the most recent legal definition of militia, then no one outside of State Defense Forces, National Guard, Naval Militia, AND over the age of 45 has the right to own a gun as a civilian.
- Unorganized militia – comprising the reserve militia: every able-bodied man of at least 17 and under 45 years of age, not a member of the State Defense Forces, National Guard, or Naval Militia.
It corresponds to the modern legal definition of the "unorganized militia" in federal code Title 10, Chapter 12, Section 246 (differing only slightly, defining the militia as citizens in the ages of seventeen to forty-five).
Our own modern federal code has a similar definition, in Title 10, Chapter 12, Section 246, defining the militia as citizens in the ages of seventeen to forty-five.
I'm just trying to understand where the limit might be, and it seems logical that 15 or 16 year olds, or older, should be able to carry the most common advanced military firearm of the era as they go about their day to day lives, just as they were able to when the Bill of Rights was written.
Which is obviously ageist (and sexist for the "men" part) in a way that doesn't really make sense, and when it comes to application gun ownership rights we can safely ignore that bit and presume that the unorganized militia is capable of consisting of any adult, regardless of age or genitalia (ie the common citizen.
).
It's really not though.
There are other documents from the time that tell us what their thinking was on this matter.
They viewed a national standing army as dangerous, but they recognized the need for the fledgling nation to protect itself.
I mean, it's literally in the first half.
"A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State".