Isn't ASEAN striving to remain non-aligned?
So it's member countries can do whatever they want without bothering about what outside players think of them.
You are looking at this from a Western perspective.
ASEAN is created to preserve economic, political and military sovereignty against potential threats from ALL external countries, not just China.
ASEAN just wants to be able to do its own things.
ASEAN wants to be able to do its own things, but now a country is staring it down and threatening its safety.
That's a problem.
From my understanding, ASEAN is less of a Union in terms of ideology and more of a collective of small countries bonding together for more bargaining power with developed countries.
It's kinda like a collective of countries with their own ideologies but same goal: to survive, grow, and thrive into an indeoendent country.
So, it's more like a business group that tried to have ideology flexibility more than a union like EU, which is well established between many countries, several of which are top of the world in development.
ASEAN might have been an attempt to recreate that united strenh, but for SouthEast Asia countries.
Cambodia is part of the ASEAN, who are trying to develop stronger ties with India and the US/West/NARTO countries.
The ASEAN is an assosciation created to strenh ties between those countries in an attempt to defend themselves from a mutual threat aka China.
It is being strenhed to help counter Chinese influence in their region and develop collaboration between those countries that have concerns about the increasing militiary threat of China and their increasing claims of territory in South China Sea and areas around those nations.
Additionally, China is beginning to make territorial claims against their neighbors, which is a threat to all nations bordering China.
The threat China poses to these nations by taking control of that Sea and restricting trade, fishing, and movement of people is probably the most major concern of the assosciation.
The greatest concern to ASEAN nations at the moment is China and it's expansion especially in the water ways around these countries.
Currently, the biggest threat and issues to these nations is China's inaccurate claim to almost all of the South China Sea.
That water way is key to all ASEAN nations as a good amount of their trade goes through there and they conduct fishing in those waters as well.