From a moral perspective you're correct - but strategically that's probably not going to work.
The problem is that so much of their own base are unwavering religious extremists that moderating on social issues would lose them a huge amount of support.
Sure, they'd pick up some centrist Democrats/independents but nowhere near enough to make up for the losses from the far right.
I don't think the average voter will understand or care - especially if Desantis is smarter about how he presents himself than Trump was.
He's a new face to the average voter so he's unburdened by Trumpism.
Hell, Trump wasn't at all subtle and he still got elected in 2016.
People didn't turn on him until they actually saw him in office day after day.
For most people he's probably starting out untarnished.
By default 2024 will probably be a referendum on Biden.
Once he announces, it sets up this series of mostly bad options for Republicans in 2024.
Plan B might be to stop fighting for him and finally supporting the legal consequences against Trump.
If he finally faces consequences for any of his many crimes, that make his candidacy announcement irrelevant.
He's got a whole lot of people who have been doing everything they can to prevent that, but when they see the slowly unfolding tragedy Trump is causing for them, he might have a lot of new enemies and suddenly may not seem so immune to consequences.
Trump strongly hinted that he'll announce his candidacy tomorrow, and hasn't shown signs of backing down from that.
We'll see.
He's backed into a corner not just by his ego but because he thinks this gets him out of legal jeopardy.
Prosecutors were holding off due to the midterms, and he thinks they'll hold off indefinitely if he's always running for president.
If he runs, one option is that he's more or less unopposed.
Say DeSantis doesn't want to spoil his career with a bitter and divisive primary against a figure that still has an influential cult of personality that overlaps strongly with DeSantis's own supporters.
He's young enough to wait until 2028 or whenever Trump is finally done.
Then he gets the nomination, and more than likely does even worse than in 2020.