Most of the parents I've seen will just say "they are just full of energy and have ADHD etc" and disregard it.
Fuing finally!
Someone have to be first.
I hate seeing kids with energy drinks.
Minors shouldn't be able to buy caffeinated drinks.
And honestly, Cola should be included.
I mean.. those inlaws of yours seems to have the mindset of "if he likes it, it's fine", which is also stupid.
But I've meant parents don't know their kids drink energy drinks after/before school etc.
Why are people defending energy drinks for kids.
You can what aboutism all you want but Energy Drinks are a legit problem.
Almost all those drinks are marketed towards kids, cans designed to look cool to kids and taste good to kids.
Also Coffee has next to no calories and tastes like shit to kids while energy drinks on top of Caffeine are loaded with Sugar.
12oz RedBull has 37 grams of sugar.
But the biggest problem is Energy drinks are specifically made so you can drink them all day.
All day you're taking in that Caffeine and Sugar, crash from sugar rush drink another can.
To argue for energy drinks is bad faith.
I think the stigma around energy drinks is everywhere?
I think it’s the additives to caffeine that people have an issue with in energy drinks - taurine and the like, though I myself am not sure where I stand on the issue.
We do drink coffee and tea here in decent quantities but you usually don’t start consuming coffee until you’re 16-17.
So when you add the concerns about additives, teens and energy drinks aren’t viewed favourably.
I see where you are coming from, I do think that there’s a fair bit of generational clash going on here and having an energy drink here and there is fine.
But it’s the specific marketing to a young audience that I have an issue with, which leads to them consuming more than they likely otherwise would.
I also drank energy drinks because I thought I was cool for doing that.
But colourful packaging and endorsement from YouTubers adds unnecessary incentive to consume.
I’m not sure how much this ban will do.
Knowing our government, I have little trust in them implementing the law effectively, it targeting the right kind of drink etc.
But while it may not be perfect, I think it’s a net positive that the government is cracking down on the issue somehow.
As opposed to coffee, energy drinks are so heavily advertised to very young teens that I think it’s a genuine issue.
And I think a ban on actually selling them to the kids would perhaps help get of rid some of that advertising, which would already be a big help.
Yes, they can still drink coffee but here’s the kicker - they won’t.
Or at least not nearly as much.
It’s not as easy to drink on the go, so you won’t have multiple a day, it’s a lot more expensive if you want the tasty sugary kind, and a lot lot less accessible.
And it’s not fucking advertised to 12-year-olds.