Is classical art porn?
LGBT sites offering aid to abused teens?
Sites trying to give sexual education that is lacking from schools (and if France is as Catholic as we are here in Italy I guess a lot lacking)?
What about a picture of two men kissing or holding hands is that porn?
Sites offering contraceptive methods?
Yeah, "banning porn" has always been a nebulous concept, because the ones in power decide what "Porn" is.
My guess is it being France, a lot of what Americans consider softcore porn doesn’t count as porn at all there.
Public television there has a surprising amount of nudity and sexual situations.
That’s different from unrestricted consent at 15.
Consensual sex within an age group is healthy.
a 15 year old being allowed to have sex with a 60 year old is much, much worse than porn.
Why does no one address the fact that people who have started going through puberty are horny and want to look at porn?
Also the fact that if someone is seeking something out then they aren’t going to be as traumatized as if they just had it shoved in their face.
Why don’t we provide safe places for younger people to look at erotic content instead?
Write laws about reducing misogyny, sexism, transphobia, and other toxic things in porn rather than clunky censorship that will never actually work and will just mean that young people will find ways to access the unregulated parts of the internet with really dark stuff.
This law is written by old idiots who don’t understand the internet or by old idiots who do and want a censorship law that can be manipulated and abused.
Double the dishonesty that they use adult content as an excuse to try to muzzle any opposition to their authoritarian methods for online censorship.
Same dishonest excuse as usual when the right wing gov try to setup a great chinese firewall in france and to start censoring in bulk online anything contradicting their narrative (because this is what it boils down to with gop-connected right wing officials).
They're just testing their hand before trying to block youtube, twitter fb and foreign press next.
Another gov move to speed drifting to the far right wing a la desantis.