Of course it's much better not to release them at all (need to reduce train derailments!
), but once some airborne flammable chemicals are released, unfortunately burning them is often the less-harmful option than letting the raw chemical spread.
With methane, for example, it's many times worse for climate change if released unburned.
With things like the Ohio chemicals, it might've been a difference between people getting sick from the smoke vs dropping dead from unburned fumes.
Similar to how they reacted to the Affordable Care Act.
It was basically Romney's health insurance plan, tailor-made to try to get Republican support.
And yet the Republicans still hated it and refused to vote for it just because it came from a Democrat, and spent years flailing around trying to repeal it with no replacement (because it already was what their plan would have been).
Yep, that makes everything worse in their eyes.
But with their ever-escalating rhetoric, they're just as mad if not madder about Biden's administration.
This would make those goods more expensive and be penned as Biden's admin making inflation worse.
Not happening when democracy is an election cycle away from not existing anymore.
2020 wasn't the end of that fight.
I am unironically saying "put this on the backburner for now" because this seems like such a tiny, insignificant issue.
Even if it costs us a billion dollars a year that's a pittance and it'll be something both corporations and the right will fight tooth and nail on, and they'll demonize the Democrats for it by framing it as raising inflation.
The cost outweighs the benefit.
That's not the case with healthcare, that's a battle worth fighting.
This though, doesn't sound like it.
It would be a hard sell.
Maybe we can focus on something as small as not subsidizing dirt roads to natural resources when we're not in global conflict lol (bombs aren't dropping on the USA, but we are very much being attacked in other ways like propaganda, misinformation, espionage, right now - as I'm sure you know, most of the worst offenders on the right are subsidized by, if not outright assets for, the Russian government).