>They fly closer to earth and drift with wind patterns, which are not as predictable to militaries and intelligence agencies as the fixed orbits of satellites, and they can evade radar.
They can also hover over areas, while satellites are generally in constant motion.
Simple cameras on balloons can produce clearer images than those on orbital satellites, and other surveillance equipment can pick up signals that do not reach the altitude of satellites.
"While the balloon was still in the air, American U-2 surveillance planes took images of it to determine its capabilities, the department said in a statement, adding that the balloon’s equipment “was clearly for intelligence surveillance and inconsistent with the equipment on board weather balloons.”.
Early in the Biden administration: they undertook an evaluation of all UFO type incidents and this review, coupled with other US espionage activity allowed them to identify the prior incidents and roughly plot the flights other balloons had taken.
Another balloon was ID’d during the Biden administration but I don’t know where that fits in the timeline— whether that balloon was identified after the fact (along with the Trump balloons) or if that was the catalyst that led to the UFO review or what.
Sometime during Trump administration: Balloons were flown into US territory but US either didn’t notice them or they were briefly spotted and categorized as “UFO”.
I don’t know when this balloon got on the government’s “radar” but unlike the others it only appears to have been publicly noticed .
The government didn’t say they weren’t aware of the balloons being in US airspace.
Simple civilian radar systems would have detected them being there just as easily.
The issue is that using complex instruments to track the origin of or identity of a random bag of gas that doesn’t have any of the signatures of modern manned aircraft or missiles is kind of pointless, it’s not what those systems do.
Which is almost certainly why China chose balloons.