This right here is the moment of truth.
Gingrich acts holier than thou with exact opposite in personal life.
Original reason that muddy up American politics and taking decency out of political discourse.
That perhaps was the only way for them to win.
Karl Rove took it further and it went further to Sarah Palin to Michelle Bachmann to agent orange.
Too bad they still don't realize that their own politicians are screwing them over in favor of their own pursuit of power.
This is the republican playbook: slash government resources when they're in power, for shortterm financial gain and political points.
Then when they aren't in power, blame all the problems (created by their cutbacks) on democrats...and republican voters eat it up without realizing they're being fucked by republican political games.
There's a lot of non party line voters who swing on central issues, and keeping them on your side is critical right now, else they'll lose the congressional power they do have and be powerless to enact meaningful change for some time.
If one party does whatever thing that is super supported by about half of the people, and then the other party turns around and takes that away the moment they get power, The original party remembers that and their voters and politicians galvanize and come back swinging harder.
Trump and his administration were operating under a very key republican theme, "the business has a right to operate itself and make a profit, there should not be federal regulation on business" and they pushed and won that battle, trump and the admin removed the regulations, among other things.
Yeah but, if the dems turn around and slam regulations back onto a private business, that will galvanize a lot of right side voters who will see it as the coming of socialism, where the gummint operates everything and runs the country out of money and becomes a police state that wants to take away guns and liberties.
If the dems turn and slam federal regulations back into place on a private business just because"they're right" or "they keep the trains safe", the central votes still skew right for some time afterward and everyone right of center digs into them for being so controlling of the business.
Just like when the right tried to outlaw abortion and the women swung a few of their states' vote to protect it at home.