I get why they are doing it but that is for sure going to fuck their country up.
Decreased output from the strike, increased money supply from the pay raise when the government gives in.
Tack that on to the existing inflation and it’s not looking so good for the country.
What about this makes things better long term?
A one time pay increase is going to be inflated away shortly.
Not allowing workers to be laid off makes the government less efficient.
Both requests obviously increase inflation.
Do you have a source to back you up?
That’s a very bold claim.
I’m going to admit to only having a couple economics classes, but hoarding money is exactly what you want to do to combat inflation.
So you are looking at the classic side of inflation which is that what we the lower and middle classes purchase is the main contributor to inflation, but let's look at the other side of the equation.
I'm going to use Canada here because it's the data I have the most familiarity with and shows how stark this can be.
The way we create inflation as you would have learned in those classes is based around our buying and selling power, this is not the way that the rich inflate the economy, they are more prone to creating inflation of assets, one of the greatest examples of this is housing, to buy a 1 bed 1 bath apartment in Vancouver right now it costs upwards of 600,000 dollars, this is in spite of the fact that there are 169 thousand homes sitting empty.
That's obviously not tenable for the average person and with those building sitting empty that means the actual value of these purchase prices is massively inflated to what a truly fair open market would give.
This drives up the cost of everything else as the working peoples need a place to live and as such they need to be paid more cycling back to our lower and middle class folks causing inflation with purchasing goods.
The nature of the inflation that rich hoarders are causing isn't the same as ours there's is done by hoarding the supply and then requiring more to be made to balance out the insufficiency, which in the case of assets like housing they will often then get themselves resetting the cycle back to "being an investment" in them making more money later or as a passive income for no actual goods or services rendered.
Edit: came back to check on this and I don't know why you are being downvoted, you asked a source and an explanation of how, you shouldn't be getting punished for wanting an understanding.