the thing is that NATO\\the west doesnt want the Russian Federation to implode.
thats why we only send support to ukraine in amounts to keep the war balanced instead of send a lot and win quickly.
we fear that when the Russian Federation collapses that the nuclear weapons will fall in the wrong hands.
US and NATO would not dare to invade Russia because of very high risk of getting nuked.
It is not like all Russian nukes will become vulnerable and useless at the same moment.
The Russian Federation's days are numbered at this point, the question now is just when and how it implodes, and what comes next.
This is a highly unrealistic and overblown view of what would happen, both in terms of imagining that the end of he Russian Federation means the rise of warlords in Russia, and that Russia itself wouldn't survive.
Then you imagine these newly minted warlords taking nuclear weapons from the places they're deployed or stored, and deploying them elsewhere.
Yet during this procedure, throughout which the weapons would be vulnerable and useless, you imagine that the US and NATO would do nothing.
Russia and Putin were really counting on this winter to pressure Europe into caving, and it just hasn't happened.
By this time next year there will be no reason to even consider Russia as a primary fuel supplier, but the harm Russia has done to itself and its reputation as a source of energy will be set in stone.
Geopolitics can explain why the supplier (in this case Russia) isn't awfully reliable but that won't change the fact that their actions (using their energy exports as a weapon) have resulted in greatly reduced demand.
This greatly reduced demand is what's letting China and India buy Russian energy at greatly reduced prices.. something they weren't able to do when Europe was still buying Russian oil and gas.
It just amazes me how someone who doesn't get it or doesn't understand anything about economics feels like they can correct people online by throwing flashy terms like geopolitics to try and sound like they know something 😅.