They've blatantly violated the terms of the Sino-British Joint Declaration regarding Hong Kong.
, yet China's extremely aggressive claims in the South China Sea are based on Qing and Ming era history that's hundreds of years old.
Sorry, but that's really not how the housing market works.
It's under a capitalist model with absolutely zero incentive or effective regulation to make housing affordable rather than profitable.
More houses just means more speculation, and the price of housing stock is tightly controlled by the people financing the system, because they want to maximise profits.
They're not going to keep mindlessly building houses until they start losing money, they'll swap to luxury units or just stop altogether to protect their profit margins.
There's literally an endless amount of case studies all over the world showing this.
Furthermore, you're completely ignoring the fact that even for the upper middle class, houses are too expensive to buy in cash and require life-long mortgages.
There's no fucking bank in the world that would lend half a million to a homeless person.
'Irresponsible' lending like that is actually illegal because the subprime mortgage bubble caused the 2008 credit crisis.
You're completely missing the point.
At no fucking stage did I ever state that the homeless should not be housed.
I'm simply telling you that you're deluded if you think more capital in a capitalist system will magically fucking fix the problems that exist specifically because of capitalism.
China, despite what idiotic tankies here think, is not communist or socialist by any means.
After Deng Xiaoping's reforms it has become a tightly controlled authoritarian capitalist state.
The housing speculation bubble has nothing in common with earlier policies around social housing.
Doesnt matter, a large amount of homelessness in America for example would be housed if the same speculators and investors here could build homes.
Instead those investors focus on holding onto existing homes and doing nothing but waiting for appreciation.
The allegation was that 1mil+ were imprisoned unfairly, but we know most of those prison camps are closed or downsized.
The ccp has changed to a heavy surveillance state model vs a mass internment model.