They've been parroting Russian propaganda lines for as long as Russia's special forces have been holidaying across the border.
There are already troops on russias borders.
And increasing our troops there, given that russia has already invaded one european country and has threatened to do so with others, would be logical.
Putin can think of it what he wants, what the fuck do we care?
He already claims we were about to invade (we weren't), so nothing will change there.
It's time for the west to stand up and take some serious measures instead of cowing to a dying old man.
Russia won't attack across NATO borders, and we won't attack across russia's, so in the end all that will happen is that we force russia to allocate some of their resources to sit on their asses on a quiet border instead of killing ukrainians.
it's more likely pressure to divert eastern ukraine forces west, and could be used to start an offensive towards Kyiv which would probably be started by a false flag attack from russian forces, either a missile strike from the east or a bomb from the russian forces already stationed there.
If Russia had to respond by redeploying a proportionate amount of troops to the NATO borders then your idea would be effective, still incredibly risky that an accidental escalation would happen, but it would work.
Can you say the chances of an accidental escalation are worth taking over just giving Ukraine more weapons or sending NATO special forces in as “volunteers” the same way Russia sent their special forces on “vacation” to Crimea?
I don’t think giving Ukraine weapons, money and training is appeasement… I don’t think maintaining current troop numbers on the borders of nato is appeasement.
Let’s keep giving weapons to Ukraine, whatever they need, but for fuck sake don’t put troops on Russia’s borders, if nothing else that is what Putin wants, it makes him right.
He’ll get to talk about NATO threatening Russia and provoking him and how we’re trying to destroy the Russian way of life.
Can we just make him look like an idiot like we are now rather than a genius?