There's also no guarantee that a person from one state knows the caste hierarchy of another state.
There's also no guarantee that a person's surname is the one that has always been in their family.
In some parts of India, some castes have been threatened by ruling powers and have has different surnames for decades.
You, like many who comment on this issue, know next to nothing about the profile of Indian immigrants to the USA, the views of second gen Indians and their relationship with caste.
Which doesn't really make any sense since the vast, vast majority of Indian immigrants to the USA are 'higher caste'.
There are likely no 'lower-caste' people to discriminate against.
I think this mean caste discrimination is being enforced by some immigrants behind the scenes so to speak.
This is like organized crime that prey on "their own" immigrant communities, knowing the people are vulnerable and afraid to seek assistance.
And I'm guessing this comes from other perhaps more established immigrants who don't want "their community" to "look bad".
My problem with this is if this is a issue then we should look at the immigrates first since if we're taking in people who have those views that's a problem and those people should be kicked out.
I don’t know if I’m comfortable setting a precedent that the government can decide who’s a good immigrant and a bad immigrant based on what they believe and use that to determine if they can come in.
That seems ripe for abuse.
Because your argument seems to fall apart if you apply it consistently.
At one point the majority of Americans DID care what religion people were.
It’s not like the Salem witch trials came about from a primarily tolerant people religion-wise.
If your argument is to set some arbitrary date after which THOSE values become the set we filter on it seems like that date would vary pretty wildly based on political perspective.
I wouldn’t want the set of values to be one set when DeSantis or Trump were in office than they would be when Biden was.
That seems needlessly capricious.