Allowing alcohol in the stadiums or not allowing it is not why Qatar is backwards.
There are a lot of other reasons besides the alcohol debacle but let’s specifically talk about why people are mad about that decision.
It’s not because alcohol isn’t being sold, it’s because Qatar claimed for years that it would be sold so they could mislead fans and sponsors (Budweiser is one of the biggest World Cup sponsors so they could sell beer and advertise in the stadiums) and only pulled out of that agreement two days before the tournament starts so FIFA can’t do anything about it.
Doing business like that is backwards.
It’s also ridiculous to claim that banning alcohol is because of religious reasons or morality when alcohol will still be available in the hospitality lounges in the stadium, so essentially rich people can still drink but the general public can’t.
I agree with this, but the hypocrisy is that there’s really no case for allowing alcohol being morally superior or alcohol being moral.
People’s best defense for the morality of alcohol being legal in the West is that prohibition isn’t effective, which was true but it says nothing about the morality, it only speaks to people’s dependence (not only in the west) on it.
It’s so interesting to me to see people use this as an example of how ass backwards Qatar is for this ban of alcohol, because I agree that they ban it for the wrong reasons (religion) but I don’t think their attitude towards alcohol is anything backwards.
The other hypocritical aspect is that the capitalistic view of the West would seem to advocate for the private business being able to have their own rules like Twitter banning Trump for violating their terms of service and how that isn’t actually violating freedom of speech because they are a private business.
And yet it seems like from what you’re saying and what I’ve read on it that banning alcohol isn’t doing anything for them to “help keep the money flowing”, it sounds like the powers that be in Qatar are PAYING a bunch of money to lose out on multiple sources of income from the event.
So I guess I’m a little unsure if the complaints are more about corruption or that Qatar will be the worst hosts of all time, which everyone already expected when it was announced.