This is great news… but this will have an impact on everyone, especially in regards to inflation.
These chemicals are used in so many ways and it will be expensive to find alternatives.
Basically all chemicals are harmful in some way or another.
PFCs are not easily replaced because they have extraordinarily unique properties like high density, high inertness, and low surface energy.
I actually spent a year of my life in the lab replacing a PFC product with a hydrocarbon alternative so I know exactly how hard it can be.
I recommend you get down off your high horse and be the change you want to see in the world.
The company I work for recently eliminated all of our perfluorocarbon products, but we did have legitimate alternatives that we were considering.
Newer substances have lifetimes of 100 years instead of like 3000 years.
Because of this and slight physicochemical differences the new substances have Global Warming Potentials 100+ times lower.
This combined with more judicious usage can make a significant positive impact without retooling the entire chemical and manufacturing industry.
According to the latest market reports coatings make up 7.6% of the PFC market, of that 7.6% non-stick coatings (frying pans) represent 1.5% (source BCC Research).
So by eliminating frying pans you have successfully reduced PFC usage by 0.11%.
I would introduce you to the countless other applications of PFCs and why PFCs are so hard to replace in those applications, but I think that would just waste both of our time.
Just rest assured that people smarter than you are working on it.
;-).
....
There is no need to 'retool' the 'entire' chemical manufacturing industry.
Just stop it from manufacturing harmful chemicals.
Just shut them down.
I work in the automotive industry, where these types of chemicals are common.
So yes, I'm well aware of the many uses for these chemicals.
Yes I'm sure there are smarter people than you working on this, but are they beholden to money?
Do they actually care about the long term ramifications, or do they just want to make theirs and pull the ladder up.
Intelligence and morality are not linked, at least by any study I've read.