This is the plan for everything: gnaw away at it then point out how useless it is and so everyone wants privatization.
Education, utilities, Medicare/NHS, Social Security, EVERYTHING.
>In an interview with Mara Liasson, shortly after the Bush tax cuts passed in May 2001, Grover Norquist said: "I don't want to abolish government.
I simply want to reduce it to the size where I can drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub.
".
Yes this.
2008 set a horrible precedent when the govt bailed out the big banks and the financial system and held no one accountable other than Madoff who ran a small boutique firm that happened to screw over wealthy clients.
Those CEOs and execs knew what was happening, should’ve got jail time, and been barred from working in the financial sector for the rest of their lives.
The banks should’ve been forced to downsize, de-monopolize, and been subject to strict new regulations.
Instead, they got what was basically a free handout and they even managed to get bigger by acquiring some of the regional banks that didn’t get much of Uncle Sams help.
No.
US govt debt is now over $31.4 trillion.
At current interest rates, nearly 25% of govt tax revenues will go to service the interest on this massive debt, much of which was incurred by unnecessary wars (Iraq, 21 years in Afghanistan), financial industry bailouts in 2008 and 2020-2022, and historic tax cuts, most of which went to the top 10% of earners in this country.
And if we allow this debt to keep growing, it could get as high as 50% of tax revenue.
But it’s the govt and these trillions they print are all unlimited and it helps America, so everything’s good, right?
(An actual response I get from some people when I explain this).
Fast forward to 2020, covid hits and while this problem wasn’t the direct result of the financial industry and they had 10 years of one of the largest bull markets in history, they weren’t well prepared for a disaster as they spent most of their excess cash on stock buybacks instead of saving for a rainy day.
But no need to fear - The Fed is here!
The industry has become so open to risk because they know the govt will bail them out - they call it the “Fed Put”.
They are more willing to accept risk now than ever, because the expectation is now that Uncle Sam will save them if the shit really hits the fan.