Bombing Ukraine is strenhening their determination, and retaliatory strikes against Russia would have a similar effect.
Nuclear weapons complicate the situation for both sides, as Ukraine does not have them and Russia may not be able to easily use theirs.
To succeed, it is important for the Ukraine and the West to be patient and wear down their opponent over time, Russia's indiscriminate approach to bombing will ensure they maintain support from their own populations.
Russia, on the other hand, will be successful if they can continue to engage their own population in the conflict, retaliation from Ukraine would give them a very powerful tool to do so.
Ukraine is fighting for survival, and the finite amount of weapons they have are better used to further degrade Russian military forces.
Ukraine is also fighting a PR war, and needs to maintain the moral high ground to ensure continued support from the west.
Terror bombings would create an opportunity for Russia to try to use its psyops abilities to try to fracture support for Ukraine in western nations, which is a form of warfare it is actually competent at.
Or if it's a way to force Ukraine into peace negotiations I'm afraid everyone understands it's not an option - Russia will just use this time as a break to convert oil into weapons while Ukraine would spend this time recovering from heavy damage and everything will be destroyed again if conflict begins.
Unless Ukraine joins some security union fast after peace is agreed I don't know if there is any future.
Honestly idk how much time such attacks can keep going unless Ukraine will be able to answer these attacks with the same actions or win fast on the field.
Right, that's merely a terror attack to force their will.
I think they try to cripple Ukraine's economy by destroying infrastructure making western help essential for survival, that's the case already.
After some time it might become a struggle and cause huge internal pressure in supporting countries to keep help coming.
While Russia's infrastructure is intact it's a huge disadvantage in the long term, especially considering Russia is sitting on a 'golden' oil while Ukrainians are relying only on good will.