gun culture in the 90s had a massive culture shift due to the ruby ridge/Waco.
Lawayne Pierre, head of the NRA ended up having an internal memo leak in 95' which lead to a lot of old guard conservatives (like HW bush) to reject the NRA.
Its also the time where they changed their philosophy to what gun culture has become now.
All that said, even with owning both styles of firearms, this country is wackadoo on guns and there are a plethora of common sense reforms that should be made.
There are far too many people that fetishize their guns and fantasize about taking another humans life in this country.
There are always going to be gun nuts who think they're going to overthrow the government, but there are also a lot of moderates who see guns as what they are: tools for rural life.
I think most people can agree on a lot of gun control (like background checks, gun safes, proper safety training), but think (however wrongly) that "liberals are just going to take away their guns".
Demonizing them is just going to make them dig in their heels, and that's just part of human nature; instead, by incorporating them as stakeholders in a future solution, that solves two problems at the same time.
What I'm trying to say is that if there are reforms, they'll be most effective when both implemented from the bottom up as well as the top down.
Sorry, I haven't made myself clear; I think creating a responsible gun culture is part of the solution, and the answer is a more grass roots approach based on community and shame.
Arguably what most people think of as mass shootings are a result of access to guns period, combined with a culture that leads to people deciding to end it all and take a bunch of others with them.
To be fair though, mass shootings account for only a small fraction of gun death, and so we’d save more lives by first tackling the more common types of gun deaths.
On the other hand they account for a relatively small percentage of all gun deaths.
We could probably save more lives overall by starting with the more common types of gun deaths.