Gregor Gysi from the left Die Linke also calls it a crime against humanity and shares his impression that this would put Stalin and Hitlers crimes on the same level, which he rejects.
At the same time, he accentuated the role of the USSR in the defeat of Hitler.
Efforts to put Stalin on the level of Hitler largely exist to relativise what Hitler did, since factually there is a gulf between them.
Please do not attempt to quote the Black Book of Communism and its terrible scholarship here.
It considers Nazi soldiers killed in WWII "victims of communism" and pulls many other kinds of shenanigans.
The opening of the soviet archives actually severely weakened the case of those arguing for genocide.
The theory best supported by historical data is that the famines were caused by the policies of incompetent and callous Soviet leadership in the midst of their brutal push to rapidly industrialise the Soviet Union.
It's already bad enough.
The insistence on "upgrading" the Holodomor to the "ultimate evil" is pretty politically loaded.
It's understandable coming from Ukrainians who have been dealing with Russia's unjustified aggression, but you can't ignore all the right-wing nationalist factions in Europe trying to equate communism and fascism in an effort to relativise their collaboration with the Nazis in WWII (and yes this is very much what this is about).
If we start counting all preventible famine deaths as the direct responsibility of a country's leader like people insist on doing for Stalin and Mao, then there's also some serious fire under the asses of a bunch of democratically elected western leaders from the many times when they knowingly let colonised peoples starve, but oddly enough we never hear about those.
This was not an accidental famine, nor did I suggest it ever was, and it was unbelievably cruel to the last drop for peasants who’s supplies and food were near none existent every time Soviet authorities demanded more than what was possible.
But calling this a genocide is reaching when it comes to the intent of the suffering which sees more for economical growth and intentional starving, though Stalin’s non sympathetic mentality most likely caused far more suffering than necessary, at times doing it in a show of force.
Those arguing that Stalin was trying to target land owning Ukrainian farmers have had to retreat to claiming that he took advantage of an existing, unintentional famine to try and punish them and even that is a. far from proven and b. doesn't even meet the definition of genocide.
The question of if it’s genocide is if the governments inaction (they could have restricted food exports and/or altered land tax and/or rent control) constitutes genocide?