Right?
I mean, don’t get me wrong: Israel should be completely reformed to give all their people equal rights under the law including the right to participate in self-determination, but annexation and citizenship would be better than this bantustan bs.
Unfortunately, I see Israel continuing down this road by annexing Area C or worse: annexing the whole West Bank but not granting Palestinians citizenship.
Edit: After remembering past protest in Jerusalem and the West Bank I think I was wrong, any annexation will probably cause riots and clashes with IDF.
I think a lot of people, like me, assumed from the title that Israel wants to annex or invade part of Jordan.
And given that most of this area is already controlled by Israeli forces and has a majority jewish population I don't see it causing a civil war either.
Of course this is ignoring all the morality and ethics of the situation this is just a pragmatic view of it.
Wow reducing the power of the high court is scary, thats a slippery slope into authoritarianism.
Hopefully the people can avoid that happening.
Really cool to hear a locals perspective on this, appreciate the reply.
Don't think this will be another war... at first I thought Israel was invading Jordan but it seems like they want to annex part of the West Bank thats called the Jordan Valley, not actual Jordan.
From the bit of research I just did it seems like Israel already controls this eastern part of the West Bank with mostly jews living there with the exception of Jericho and Al-Auja.
So pretty much they wanna turn their unofficial control into official control by claiming it as Israel proper.
It'll be condemned by world leaders but I don't think it'll start a war since Palestinians don't have an army and Jordan isn't being invaded.
My gut says it won't cause much or any violence in the West Bank but Hamas in Gaza will definitely respond to this.
Curious if that'll be another rocket attack that just gets intercepted or if Hamas takes more drastic action.
Also thats a good point, we'll see if Netanyahu is serious about this or if its just an election stunt.