That's the issue actually, conservatives who can afford to are retiring to Florida in large numbers.
This has been a trend for 30 years too, it's why Florida is no longer a swing state.
This process is now accelerating because of DeSantis because he's also driving out the liberals that can afford to leave.
Places like the Panhandle have always been conservative, but until around 2000 they were counterbalanced by the more liberal/moderate areas to the south.
This is more of a longer term problem, he might set it in motion but it's unlikely he'll still be governor by the time it really starts coming to fruition.
He'll leave Florida's education system crippled for a generation.
Similar to how Wilson left California's energy grid crippled for decades after he was governor.
We're still dealing with the aftermath in some ways because subsequent Republican governors stalled any attempts to fix anything.
It's kind of hard to unmake the sausage of deregulation.
Florida's education system will suffer much the same if DeSantis gets his way.
Florida students deserve the chance to leave if they can, and this takes away one of their only paths, which sucks because they didn’t even vote for Desantis.
I think that’s what he wants.
He wants to blame liberal states for not accepting our students and make a culture war out of it but take no credit for it being his fault.
I actually don’t think a majority of the military is red.
Military votes in the past few years have skewed blue iIRC.
I think the division is between higher ups and enlisted, as the person said but also, people who chose to enlist because they have a family history of military service and love the military vs those who enlisted because it was their only hope of getting out of poverty or whatever else they had going on at the time.
Those who chose to tend to lean more red but those who enlisted because it was their only option tend to lean more blue, at least that’s my theory.
I hate this because it seems like it’s just punishing students in Florida for Desantis’ insanity, and it almost feels like playing into his hand because I’m sure if they do that he’ll fight the college board saying he’s “fighting for Florida students” and dumbasses will believe it.
He is gonna end up fucking over so many students from FL in College if he fucks around and finds out that his dumbass bubble isn’t going to help students from his state in anyway.
He's trying to turn Florida's education system from being shitty due to neglect to being shitty due to the state actually working hard to make it shitty.