I read your link and read a little more.
The official is technically correct, the original rule was to apply to cars of 20 or more and while applicable to all flammable liquids was primarily aimed at ethanol and oil tankers.
But is this technically correct answer really satisfactory to you?
The industry stopped any adaptation of ECPs.
They claimed that the breaks would cost 35 million a year while the savings would only amount to 19 million.
Meanwhile, some railway safety experts say that the nature of the materials transported means that even the fewer number of cars should have caused them to be classified as hazardous.
But this could never happen if you could not force ECP on 20 cars.
You are technically correct but the residents got a raw deal.
I hope the inevitable civil lawsuits bankrupts the rail company.
What a weird comment.
What exactly is the mis information?
Technically, the law as formulated could not have “saved” the town.
But, regulation rollback without regard to harm is the cause of the accident.
Rolling back regulations as not cost effective is evil.
You get this weird win whereby this accident could not have been saved by a proposed rule, but a multi car accident involving oil is just around the corner.
Oil car spills happen frequently.
When that happens what will you say?
I could be wrong, but the official probably worked in the industry.
It’s pretty unusual for a government official to go put of their way to put out a notice like that.
And to frame it as misinformation is very strange.
My point specifically though is that people are spreading this false narrative that it was evil.
Trump who caused this issue.
But even the professionals at the NTSB don't believe that.
You can be an evil person but still do what's best for your country.
We wouldn't be at war now if it wasn't for the US meddling in the politics of Ukraine and Russia.
The US helped create the maidan protests.
It helps with the coup to change the government in Ukraine.
It helped with the bombings Donbas and other areas.
The Minsk agreements are known time wasters according to Merkel.
Just so Ukraine could get more time to build up their forces.
It was Ukraine who continued to bomb the areas who supported Russia and Russian cooperation.
It was Ukraine who increased dramatically the bombing of those areas before the invasion a year ago.
The Russian invasion of Ukraine is a much much bigger deal with a much bigger impact on more people.
Millions have died.
Children have been kidnapped.
The infrastructure is devestated.
Two nuclear sites have been stolen and remain a risk.
And the ecological damage has not been assessed.
It's going to be horrific.
Remember those dogs left behind at Chernobyl?
What are the odds Russians haven't killed them off?
War destroys wildlife, water quality, air quality..