Im in the forces myself , i have followed the situation in ukraine since feb24th .
I am fully aware of the reasons for this attack and what we need to do to support ukraine .
I am also however very aware that our country is absolutely fucked and is being driven off a cliff by our government who are currently refusing to give our nurses and ambulance drivers the pay rise they need and refuse to fund our healthcare system because they want a private one they can make money off instead.
The majority of people in our country are not aware of the reasons ukraine fighting off the russians is so important and understandably would be annoyed at the prospect of giving away money in large sums to other countries instead of funding out nurses .
I'm not against supporting the war in Ukraine, but it's getting harder and harder to see our extremely wealthy leader gives hundreds of £millions to a foreign country when average people in the UK are freezing and starving.
For the record I'm not pro-russian or pro-ukrainian, I'm anti-war and I feel like this war could have been avoided if NATO stopped putting Russia in a difficult position.
I don't see Russia invading Moldova and considering most of Europe are in NATO, Russia wouldn't attack any of them anyway.
Russia don't want NATO on its doorstep in the same way I'd imagine the USA wouldn't want a similar Russian let organization on theirs.
Look at the Cuban missile crisis for example.
The US nearly caused nuclear war and yet Russia are just meant to roll over and allow it.
I don't agree with Russia invading Ukraine but I do believe many of their reasons for doing so can be understood.
In the 90's NATO agreed to not expand eastwards, yet over the next two decades they did.
Russia even applied to join NATO, but they were denied because NATO needs an "enemy".
Imagine Mexico joined a military pact with Russia, do you really think the USA would allow this to happen?
The Cuban missile crisis is an example of what happens when a country close to the US mainland befriends Russia.
Yet, Russia was just expected to be fine with it.