If they didn't have Nukes then all of the countries supplying Ukraine with weapons to defend itself probably wouldn't have to add the stipulation of not attacking Russia back with said weapons.
And let every sovereign state, big or small, take care of their own defense and deterrence using nukes as a last resort, rather than dragging in overseas allies using the "we don't have nukes but they do" argument.
There is a valid reason to complain about the US overreaching in either European or Pacific affairs, but giving each regional power the ability to defend its sovereignty with overwhelming force would do much to remove the reason the US uses to keep getting involved everywhere.
Right.
And this is what happens when one side has its own nukes, and the other side relies on a nuclear umbrella from an ally, because that ally might not be willing to risk their own nuclear destruction.
Thankfully nukes are made so they need a very specific action to go off, which is why there haven't been any accidental nuclear explosions despite some pretty big accidents happening.
Yes, because every single nuke have the same high payload, missile defense system doesn't exist, and whatever movie shit yall think is real about nukes.
The goal of increasing nukes isn't to "survive" a nuclear war if it happens, it's to have enough nukes that, in the event it happens, guarantee to annihilate all your enemies, even after factoring in all the contingencies that can happen in the fog of war.
If some (or even most) of your nukes are destroyed in their silos in an enemy first strike, and of the rest, some fail to launch, some are refused to be launched by rebel/dissenting officers, some are shot down in-flight, some fail to detonate or fizzle, some mistakenly attack the wrong target or the same target twice, some are left in reserve for second-strikes or any allies that might join the enemy... there's still enough left over to destroy one, or several, opposing superpowers.
And not just a few cities (which hypothetically could be seen as "survivable casualties"), but to wreck the whole country so thoroughly, there will be nothing left resembling a nation-state in a military or economic sense for the foreseeable future.