Part of this is an ethnic cleansing aka genocide.
The ethnic Russians have an abysmal birth rate of 1.04 per woman, whereas it is commonly accepted you need a birth rate of 2.40 to grow your population.
Their birth rate is going to see the ethnic Russians shrink rapidly over time, which is only worsened by the WW2 echo.
If you look at the Russian age demographic you’ll see parts where those born during WW2 and roughly every 20 years have a severe dip in population.
For perspective the USSR lost roughly 12% of its population from WW2, an absolutely devastating number.
Russia has seen an enormous loss of experienced military personnel to the point their military command is crumbling.
Their known stockpile of tanks, excluding those in museums that they’ve been reserving out of desperation, is almost entirely destroyed or in enemy hands, they’re well beyond losing the amount of men they initially mobilized for the war, they’ve depleted their smart munitions and are believed to be desperately low on dummy bombs (for artillery, planes, etc), their Air Force has been uncommonly quiet, and they’ve lost a handful of ships to an enemy without a navy.
Ukraine is putting up a massive fight against Russia, and this war has not only shown Russian aggression still exists, but helped strenhen a NATO that had been asking itself if it even has a place to exist in modern times.
Ukraine is demonstrating the strenh disparity between the “2nd” most powerful military and what a military with US support can do.
European nations have increased their military spending to bridge the gap out of fear of being unprepared for another large scale war.
Putin really fucked up.
So power hungry and ego driven.
Instead of using the wealth of Russia to better the lives of his citizens and create a nation people would want to immigrate to, Putin has personally seized so much control over the wealth and production of Russia it is commonly believed he is the wealthiest man to ever exist.
Now he’s in a war he can’t win while his oligarchs see seeing their wealth disappear and the citizens are seeing another generation never come home.
It’s sad to see and it’s hard to know just how much this will affect the future of Russia.
It needs to get bad enough for the average Russian to opt rather to fight and likely die in Russia, than go to Ukraine and certainly die .
Since hardly anything has changed with the Russian military doctrine, I bet my bottom dollar that the same thing is happening now in Ukraine except it might be even worse (i.e.
purposefully using unsecured lines that can easily be listened/tapped into and talk about where the other groups are digging/stationed at which ends up opening them to artillery/drone fire, giving wrong orders to other groups so that they will end up being sitting ducks, having one guy or a bunch surrender to the Ukrainians just so they can rat out on the other groups, etc).