How it should work is the federal government should replace student loans with interest free loans and income based repayments that are forgiven after 10 years if not repaid in full.
Right there… the requirement is the payback of the loan… the student financial assistance program is the program that gives out the loans (i.e., requirement to payback).
The summary reading of that law that I provided makes it abundantly clear it’s about waiving the requirements to pay back loans from the student financial assistance programs.
The way it reads to me seems pretty specific to loans (“requirements”) and the student financial assistance programs.
I’m looking at the actual law now.
You’re right, people can read this and argue over what exactly was meant for each and every potential case, just like any other law.
But I don’t think it’s broad… here, see for .
To me, that’s pretty specific and seems to fall right in line with the EdSec’s arguments to allow this go forward.
I honestly think the only way to attack this is for the Supreme Court to reeeeaaaallly step all over a co-equal branch of the government.
This law was introduced in the house, by the power of the purse, and sailed right through the senate without amendments and landed on the presidents desk.
COVID has killed more Americans than any attack on our country ever, and all people experienced hardship (and still are).
The law was meant for a moment like this, so it would be fed up for the Supreme Court to intervene.
You are crudely interpreting it incorrectly… “waive or modify any requirement or regulation applicable to the student financial assistance programs.” Note, it’s not even giving him authority to change the hero’s act, but the regulation that defines how student financial assistance programs work (which is defined under different regulations, not the hero’s act).
My reading of the situation is that they went this route (a cabinet member making the decision in the midst of a national emergency [covid]) because congress passed a law that explicitly allowed for that.
I’m not really sure how the court could rule against this since the law was pretty clear in its language and directly bestowed this power to the cabinet member.
In their recent ruling against the EPA, the court made up a new metric whereby they will shut down agencies interpreting laws if they have too much of an impact on the country without explicit approval from congress to do so.
In this case, congress explicitly gave the agency and its leader that power… so, rest assured (/s) that the court will make up a new metric through which to abuse their power.
Why are you making shit up and acting correct?
The law specifically allows waivers to student financial aid.
If you don’t believe me, you can read about it on congress’ website .