For the last 5 or so years I only hear the republicans puke points on local news and it’s sickening.
You should also be asking how it is that Republicans were OK letting a stinking turd like this run in their ticket in the first place.
Why are we (by this I mean "the press") discussing the Biden classified documents in the same breath as Trump?
It is obvious one is basically some minor stupid bureaucratic mess ad the other was a very deliberate and potentially serious breach of all kinds of major national security protocols.
I know that some players might be pushing this the way that they are to "muddy the waters" - which Fox News, the House Republicans and the rest will certainly do... but for major networks, NPR, etc.
to seriously present these in the sentence is preposterous.
Clinton was, as far as I’m concerned, neo-lib, as was Obama, and even Biden was the most “conservative,” status-quo option presented to primary voters.
If it wasn’t for the blatant politics of repression, bigotry and dumbness that Republicans are into nowadays, the main Democratic platforms would be even more to the right than they are now.
But American Republicans are so far right compared to even the rightmost mainstream conservative parties, it makes it incredibly hard for Democrats to actually act on their ideology.
(Which is why you see Democrats seizing opportunities they DO get to do as much as possible, like when Democrats got a trifecta in Virginia for the first time in decades and passed more significant legislation in 2 years than had been passed in the 20 before.
).
Yeah.
Because Schengen is trying to get "Europe" as a concept on the same level as US is for interstate travel.
Try immigrating from outside of Europe, especially unskilled immigration.
The US has quotas for every country that just lets random people immigrate, rather than requiring a specific skill visa; that concept doesn't really exist for any country in Europe that I'm aware of.
And disagreements even over Schengen and the "common market" was a commonly cited reason for Brexit.