Addendum to 1: He began making these claims MONTHS before the election.
Using rhetoric along the lines of “the only way we lose this election is if the dems cheat” and refusing to say that he would concede if he lost.
You could arguably even go back to 2016 when Roger Stone and Trump first came up with “Stop the Steal” slogan while claiming Dems were cheating.
Trump actually started with his bullshit election fraud crap as soon as he knew he would be running against Joe Biden, who he knew would (and did) beat him "like a drum.
".
OH there it is!
I KNEW that was coming.
Everytime people like you compare BLM and Jan 6th, you just lose all credibility.
Last time I checked, BLM was not spearheaded by our president.
It was a final straw reaction to the massive amount of police brutality that happens in this country.
It was also proven that a lot of the serious violence was the right pretending to be BLM and starting it.
While some people in politics showed support for the movement (not the violence) they still weren't the ones who were in charge of it and calling the shots.
No amount of anything the right tries to use to make Biden look bad, will ever be enough to overcome everything Trump has done.
That stain will never come out and the GOP looks so weak and pathetic every time they try and shame Biden for anything.
Almost all politicians are dirty and if we’re this angry at dumb ass Trump we also have to have the same anger towards Biden.
He’s a loser president who used his position to enrich his family and its not even debatable.
Time we hold the government accountable.
Don’t forget they work for you.
nothing happened on January 6 that did not happen all summer long in the different riots across the country.
Actually, it was not as deadly as many of the riots last summer.
There was no insurrection just a bunch of stupid rednecks who were dumb enough to fall for the tricks, and walk through the doors once they were, open by other idiots not one weapon was used the entire time.
Name and ins direction or coup that was ever attempted in history without weapons.