You’re living in a fantasy world if you expect any of them will ever come to this realization and even if any of them did, their collective character dictates that they would never publicly acknowledge this realization.
I can empathize.
I grew up a Bears fan and was a diehard fan for 30 years, I was born in the eighties so didn’t get to fully appreciate their last championship (they’ve won 9, only 1 Super Bowl but that team was arguably one of the best teams ever.
).
2.
Americans who insist they are more Irish than Irish people themselves, ask if you know a random Irish name (we are a country of 6 million people, it’s unlikely we do, lol), and so on.
Don’t get me wrong, I absolutely appreciate the fact a lot of American people identify as part Irish cause they had a great Granny that moved over there 100 years ago.
But some can be massively over the top in telling people how Irish they are, and it can be a little insulting when they are pushy about it.
Most of the time, that really just registers an eye roll though cause we know it’s a genuine attempt at connecting with your history.
It’s not malicious and anyone who responds maliciously to that type of American is an asshole.
We will obviously be talking about generalities here, but I feel there’s a weird narrative sometimes of “Irish people hate Americans” that I do see discussed every now and again.
The one other thing I’d say is…..Americans quite often seem to struggle with Irish humour, which can be massively sarcastic and self-deprecating.
Whenever I visit America, it takes me a few days to adjust my humour and my attempts at jokes can often be met with raised eyebrows.
When someone asks me what my day has been like in Ireland, usually they don’t care, so it’s a snarky response or a pivot to something else.
In America, they seem genuinely interested in getting a response, wanting to know what your day was like, and then expecting a request back to talk about their day.
Often when I’m ask how my day has been, I’ll give an Irish response of “it’s grand” and move onto business, leaving people looking at me as if I’ve insulted them.
Irish humour can be dark and bleak and seemingly harsh, but I don’t necessarily believe it’s malicious.
It can often revolve around the idea of….I will insult you with a laugh, you insult me back with a grin, and we have a drink together.
But American humour seems to often be more blunt, honest and more friendly.
Not rude and insulting, but a genuine desire to connect.
Irish humour can be more protective and isolated.
Barriers up, not wanting to share too much about yourself.
That clash of culture might mean a straight-laced American misreads a sarcastic joke as an attempt to be cruel, and thus think the other person is being unfriendly.
If that makes sense.
If you can slag yourself off, take a joke, snap back with a wink in your eye, you’ll probably find us very charming.
If you take yourself super seriously, you will find the humour off putting.