That is a major, major, hurdle to home ownership that falls squarely at the feet of credit reporting agencies.
If you want to make a dent in the housing crisis lobby your representative to force legislation to count rent payments towards your credit score.
Also final note: lots of rental companies are rolling out programs that help leasers build credit by paying rent on time, thus helping them eventually buy a home.
They're not buying as such, they're building new tract housing with the intent of renting them out like apartments but targeted towards single families.
I don't think this would have any real impact on the housing market unless it's a runaway success.
A 1 billion investment in real estate is really only like 3000 homes.
$1 billion of houses is somewhere between 1000 and 3000 houses, not counting all of the costs to manage them.
Final note: While seeing "$1 Billion in a headline is eye-opening, the truth is that $1b in single-family homes is probably around 4,000 homes.
It's not a lot in the grand scheme.
But, this deal is just one of many that's happening out there.
And, if the housing market goes tits-up (as it has in the recent past), the market will change shape again and this may not be a super common model in, say, 10 years.
We must first acknowledge that buying a home (or any asset that tends to appreciate in value) is the best way to start building personal wealth.
No doubt.
Like, that's the key to get your financial scene rolling in the right direction.
And with houses, you get to LIVE THERE while your asset appreciates Great deal But it's also important to note that houses are the only thing that appreciate in value, AND there are lots of different products that you can live in that appreciate in value: single-family homes, duplexes, condos, barndos(), even tiny homes The last 15 years or so have seen a boom in housing diversity; sure, this is partially due to boomers ruining the economy, but truthfully, the 1950's leave-it-to-beaver model of housing is sort of antiquated.
There are lots of folks that would prefer renting to buying, for whatever reason - maybe they don't want to settle in one place.
Maybe they don't have a traditional nuclear family (and don't want one!
), or maybe they're in college.
And, yes, of course, many people don't have the ability to buy a home due to financial reasons and/or bad credit, health situations, et cetera, but that's a whole other can of worms.