He wants to go back to the Cold War when Russia was treated as a superpower instead of the regional power it nowadays is.
And it will never happen, since Russia both lost its European vassals (including its sphere of influence due to them joining NATO) as well as China’s rise to power.
If Russia wanted to be a respected dictatorship they should have focused on their economy like China - instead they lost the plot and tried to invade Ukraine even though it benefits their global position in no way.
The Russians talk about the west and specifically the U.S. constantly - it’s super weird when you see their propaganda translated.
If only the Russians knew that prior to the war no one in the US gave a shit about Russia and they are a backwater - simply not discussed.
NATO is basically telling Russia "if you hit me I'm going to hit you back" and for some reason that upsets Russia because Russia believes they have to hit someone.
That's how assholes function.
And even though Russia knows that in this scenario it can get the first hit in and threatens to send us back to the stone age with nukes, it also knows that if NATO hits back they'll be sent back to the Precambrian era in retaliation.
I'm thinking, if he plans to do some provocation or something... Basically, considering how Russians are cut off from outside information, he could say "well, we heard that US did a test of Nuclear weapon - So we would do too" - Even if US or any NATO state wouldn't do that...
I wonder one thing...
The putin said that "If US would do the test of Nuclear weapons, they would do a test too".
Also - what worries me, is that either he or some people around him said that he did some kind of test of scenario of using the nuclear bomb, and he said that "he won't use it, because it's not worth it".
Since the war started, he was constantly saying how he would use Nuclear weapon, so people were like "Naah, he won't do that, he's bluffing" - Because, logically, if he wanted to use it, he won't tell everyone left and right that he will use it.