In addition to that, no prominent Republicans in office have actually criticized him by name yet, which means they're all still afraid of him.
He's still the presumptive GOP nominee for president in 2024.
All that's changed in the last week is that that has become even more disgusting and pathetic for the rest of us.
But no, the GOP truly has no bottom that their depravity will stop sinking at.
It won't truly be over for Trump at least until prominent Republicans in office start criticizing him by name.
None of them are doing that, even now after all of this.
If none of them are willing to do that, then there's no chance anyone unseats him as the nominee.
Clearly everyone in the Republican party still is too afraid of Trump to criticize him, which indicates he's still the standard bearer for the GOP.
Alternatively, those in the GOP majority who follow the party were probably very dismayed with Trump by what happened in the election.
He's an easy target for them to attach blame to, rather than admitting that their messaging is also part of the problem.
A NBC poll from a month ago indicated that about 30% of the base supported Trump more than the GOP party.
While a substantial minority, until this number is reduced he will remain a major player, especially if there is a wide number of 2024 contenders splitting the remainder of the GOP support.
This guy remains dangerous.
I don't think he ever cared for the GOP.
It was simply a convenient vessel long prepared by the GOP bosses to be an easy hostile takeover by an authoritarian demagogue like himself.
I agree that he wouldn't hesitate to burn it all to the ground in a final act of vengeance, and an ego driven third-party MAGA run by Trump could do just that by sucking support from mainstream GOP candidates.
While I hope for a big fall, the cynical side of me wants him to continue to run and lose the GOP nomination then run as an independent so he can split the ticket right before getting hammered for seditious conspiracy.
It would be the best of all possible worlds.