I already did, a few hours ago, but Reddit downvoted my factual information.
Here is what I posted:
Criminologists and other researchers found that the ban had little to no effect on firearm deaths or the lethality of gun crimes.
Studies have found that the overwhelming majority of gun crimes are committed with weapons which are not covered by the AWB, and that assault weapons are less likely to be used in homicides than other weapons.
There is tentative evidence that the frequency of mass shootings may have slightly decreased while the ban was in effect, but research is inconclusive, with independent researchers finding conflicting results.
But at the same time, you cannot deny the statistics that countries with more gun regulation tend to have much less decreased rates of mass shootings relative to the US.
This includes Switzerland.
They have tough background checks and even concealed carry permits are scarcely given.
They are getting different results.
Support for gun legislation has gone up throughout the years.
The reason that hasn't made a more dramatic shift, however, is that gun legislation isn't a priority for most fucking people, even in rural areas.
Hell, they could spend the rest of their natural lives arguing that whatever gets done, (other people) still haven't built a mental healthcare utopia and that's why there's still all this gun violence.
Even better, state of the art mental healthcare might never reach the point of being able fix someone who wants to kill as many people as they can afford bullets for.
What is pretty obvious is that it limits the number of assault rifles in the market that mentally ill people would be able to take advantage of.
Law-abiding citizens will not be able to buy assault weapons as well, sure.
But you don't need assault weapons to defend yourself from a home invader or even go hunting for that matter.
The only reason you would need an assault weapon is if you wanted to play militia.
You said above nobody will have a gun so nobody will need one to defend themselves against someone else with a gun.
That literally means you’re referring to there being no guns.
Also if you're saying that drug dealers can get guns after an assault weapon ban, where are they getting these guns from?
Not only that, but will they become "gun dealers" as a result?
Even if they magically get guns somehow, law enforcement would certainly see them as larger targets and spend more resources going after them, which would be a good thing.