The Tiger I was actually really fucking good.
The Panther and Tiger II were utter pieces of junk but the Tiger 1, although difficult to maintain and expensive, was probably one of the best vehicles of the war.
This was mostly due to the insanely good crew ergonomics as well as good enough field reliability and being one of the few vehicles of the war where the crew could fight with the tank, not against it.
Still doesn't beat the Sherman (what tank can honestly) but the Tiger I really seems to get a lot of false things attributed to it from being associated with the other German tanks of the era, which definitely deserve the bad rep (I mean yeah...most of the stuff was utter crap).
Also the Tiger II was probably way worse in how much resources it ate and never returned.
At least the Tiger was a good tank that, despite its issues, could hold itself in battle and managed to at least be tolerable in reliability.
The Tiger II couldn't even do that.
These things were like the anti-IS-2, where all the wrong lessons were learned and still sent to production.
At least the gun was good and wasn't a pain to reload but everything else, even the fucking armor thanks to alloying-metal shortages, was crap.
All of that can also be said about the rest of the IS series tanks like the IS-3 where everything that was learned just got thrown away.
Oh yeah, the IS-2 was honestly an amazing tank, which is why I am constantly asking myself what the fuck went wrong with the T-34 that it's such an awful thing while at the same time, the Soviets produced the IS-2 which did so many things right.
Definitely a better choice than the Tiger but still, the Tiger I's reputation is getting over-corrected to the point where a lot of the many upsides of the Tiger I get ignored because people seem to think the only things that a tank need are reliability and tank to tank combat capabilities.
For my money the IS-2 was a nightmare to reload, but it had comparable ergonomics to the Tiger, a lot higher reliability, didn't run out of fuel hilariously quickly, and while its gun had some issues it could sure as shit shoot through a Tiger.
Oh and it didn't spend most of its active career either broken down or towing other Tigers.
I'd happily take it over the Tiger 1.
For the Tiger?
Realistically, I’d say it was fairly well-suited to fighting in an area with relatively developed transportation infrastructure and reliable depots.
It would probably be fine in the heart of Europe.
But for long distance campaigns across trackless steppe?
Honestly could hardly have a worse choice.
Ironically, I’d actually argue that, if the US Army had the Tiger, they probably could have done better with it than the Germans did, since they actually had the fuel reserves and maintenance supplies.
I'll agree the Tiger could work well in an industrialized, built up area where trucks could easily move around and deliver petrol to suppliment the fuel supply (and repair it when it broke down, as was pretty usual).
The Germans wanted it to be a breakthrough tank though, and... look, there's nothing more bollocks than a breakthrough tank that needs your fuel truck to follow right behind it.
It was basically designed assuming the Blitzkrieg of Poland was going to be how the entire Russian front went.