Russian logistics are holding (mostly, the lack of quality steel is really hurting them) at the strategic level, but they're struggling at the tactical level.
We can't do much about Russia's ability to railroad in supplies from all over their country, even the far reaches in the east, but it's becoming increasingly hard for Russia to move shells from the unloading points to the front line.
It's one of several reasons Russia's artillery usage has fallen off heavily.
I don't know if it was by design or not, but NATO slow-walking artillery in stages to the Ukrainians has been devastating to Russian supplies.
Every time we roll out a new artillery system that increases the range of Ukrainian fire missions, Russia loses a whole mess of ammo and supply depots and is forced to push them even further back.
Once that is over, Ukrainian units will have the training and logistical support for the new toys and then launch their own offence, taking advantage of losses Russia suffered from any pyrrhic victories they might have had earlier.
Russia should have gained air superiority in Ukraine within the first week or two, which would have prevented the West from sending them armour/heavy weapons platforms, because those vehicles would be sitting ducks, and in theory, it would be nearly impossible to ship enough air defense systems to Ukraine to have made much of an impact.
The military readiness of these other countries is not really a concern because 1) they’re in nato and have defense guarantees from others and 2) Russia is already basically fully extended in Ukraine and will not be launching armored attacks against others right now.
Ukraine has the support of NATO keeping its artillery systems online, with the Pentagon's European Command setting up a retooling facility in Poland.
But even with that, I've seen estimates that as much of a third of Ukraine's artillery is out of commission for repair at any given point of time.
And while I agree with you that Russia is resupplying through this operational pause, they have to keep their ammo depots behind the current Ukrainian artillery range.
Just in time for the US to release some of its longer range HIMAR munitions to Ukraine.