Russian leadership is a criminal cartel, along with fellow traveler China.
China always seems to trail Russia as its ideological progenitor.
Selling superstition, nostalgia for past glory and "tradition" while using the most brutal and invasive tactics to chill any dissent.
The most transactional people will see benefit from collaboration with autocratic elements and petty importance - this is key.
Reward the worst people and elevate them to manageable power to keep moral people afraid, self-censored and neutralized; don't you want to simply mind your own business and keep away from any unpleasantness?
"If you've done nothing wrong, you have nothing to fear!
".
But it does.
You understand that they're in a bit of a 'first' of a situation, right?
Modern weaponry, modern ways of subduing populace, modern surveillance.
We whinge about the loss of privacy in our democratic countries.
Can you comprehend how much worse it is in Russia?
Especially with its geography, relatively low population in relation to the size of the country, and isolation, and aging populace?
They're protesting to save their own people's lives.
You expect Russians to protest for the sake of another country's people's lives.
When has that ever successfully happened?
Vietnam protests?
To an extent, but it was still more about 'our boys being sent to die' than the trespasses against Vietnam and her people.
Their grandparents were born during or just before WW2.
These are not folk of venerable age doing this by and large, it's young and middle-aged people.
Reminder to you, I am 31.
Estonian.
My grandmother is like... 81 I think, spry old bat.
Born during WW2.
She 'didn't do better'.
She simply seized an opportunity.
By the time we became independent, the Soviet Union had been collapsing for ten years already.
A hundred things had to go right and wrong for us to sing and hand-hold and occupy the TV tower to freedom.
We broke away from a beast that was all but dead.
Russia of today isn't even close to that.