It works wonderfully well at letting everyone have a say in politics and we usually end up with more moderate/sane politicians elected without huge swings to the right or left.
And it absolutely leads to better outcomes, as it means the political parties have to appeal to the majority rather than the vocal minority.
I still think proportional representation is the only way because it doesnt give voice to small part of the voters, while even preferential voting doesnt give voice to 30%+ of the population.
Because the voters are allowed to make the parties compete for their votes, instead of situations like in the US where parties aren't competing for votes but are trying to motivate their base to vote.
With optional voting, unless there's a huge incentive to vote (awful government), you often get those that are very passionate about politics voting (usually the far-right & far-left), and retirees who have a lot more time on their hands.
Mandatory voting forces the government to make voting easy, since voter suppression isn't a valid tactic when voting is mandatory.
Making voting hard in that case isn't going to result in less voters, it's going to result in more pissed off voters.
As someone who has counted votes in the last couple federal elections, this isn't true.
If your intentions aren't clear for the whole vote, the vote is informal and doesn't count.
E.g.
Putting a 1 in one box and nothing in the others won't count, but missing 1 box and everything else being filled out properly does count, since the intention is clearly to put the missing number in that box (almost always the last number).
This might be different at the state level in your state (state elections are done by the states and therefore are slightly different, although they have been recently trending towards the federal standard), but this isn't true at the federal level.
Yeah, we do have different state bodies that take care of state and local elections, but federal elections are overseen by a federal body... because why wouldn't they be?