You bucked yourself into a we, and I think that’s not fair.
I’m also a white dude in my 30s.
I am not the problem.
This is critically important to call out.
It’s not about how someone looks.
It’s about how someone thinks.
This is a really thought provoking notion.
Even though I’m a complete non-historian, this definitely seems intuitive based on what we have all seen and learned about society and ourselves- letting a problem fester and boil over until it gets out of hand is never a good approach.
Making some small, incremental changes to the existing system should not be a big ask but could go a long way toward reducing loss of life.
That said, much of our country absolutely fetishizes weapons and are not mature enough to make compromises for public safety and the wellbeing of our children.
I’m a long-time gun owner who enjoys firearms; I will never understand why so many are resistant to adding additional safeguards to help promote public safety.
And as a criminal defense attorney who’s handled numerous gun cases, some of the arguments around “tHeN OnLy CeRmErnUls wIlL hAvE dEm!” are just asinine.
No law is perfect, but what’s worse then slowly evolving public safety legislation is stagnation and doing nothing at all while tens of thousands of innocent people are needlessly gunned down every year due to fear, propaganda, and misguided inertia about finding common ground keep the more dangerous weapons away from those who will not use them responsibly.
I certainly wouldn't be thinking "Gee, I sure wish we'd waste our time on ineffective and infeasible measures targeting guns that don't even have a chance of being passed instead of putting the focus on ending the war on drugs, reducing the prevalence of poverty, improving our general and mental healthcare systems, and reforming law enforcement (all of which are far less contentious and would garner far more broad support and would have significant positive effects).
".
Yeah.
It's disgusting seeing them bend to gun control advocates but cower in fear of reducing the disparity in wealth.
That's the point.
It's all a distraction from real problems so rich people can get richer unobstructed.