I know it’s not to get people to like China but meant that they hate China so much that any whiff that misinformation is coming from China might not work.
Or maybe it will.
They seem to love anyone that says what they want to hear.
But respectfully disagree on the both sides part where dems are center right.
We are dealing with a party trying to drag this country to far right authoritarianism, not the time to start yelling that the left side of the rope isn’t far left enough.
If the right weren’t batshit crazy right now things would look better.
Both sides thinking didn’t help us years ago.
Having people vote strategically has been helping in this environment (youth turnout in midterms).
Just not the time for that IMO.
With the state of the playing field as it is right now, now is the time for you to get involved in getting progressives in.
If that’s what you want.
Otherwise what are you even looking to do with what is available?
Strongarm centrists who were voted in by centrists to be far left now?
The democratic party is pretty centrist, just in terms of the blanket their voters fall under.
They act center-right because the right has pretty much abolished all accountability, and they aren't dumb, they know there are certain status quos that need to be maintained internationally that the right stopped stepping up to that needed to be addressed.
They are basically the only adults left in the room.
The right managed to peel off a lot of the potential 'left wing' vote with their shenanigans, populism and culture wars.
I say that because a lot of would-be left wing people are kinda idiots.
If you listen to people like Matt Gaetz talk out of context, you would almost assume he's left with the shit he says in terms of policy, just broad appeal the government is going to help the working people, etc.
It's the entertainment and outrage culture that they promote that gets a lot of the people that would be mad at the government for shit the government really is doing.
Corporate lobbying, psyops, whatever, is all just MARKETING.
Corporate lobbying does positive and negative things, depending on your personal opinion on a topic, but all these topics have people lobbying on both sides with corporate interests in mind.