A formal consultation is not "just a meeting".
Article 4 is for building a consensus on a proportionate response from all members of the alliance.
Correct but they did NOT invoke the formal article 4 they merely had informal talks.
Had they determined the missile was fired from Russia, they would have used article 4 to craft their proportional response.
To be fair Russia was responsible for the Polish blast, be it because it's missile hit Poland directly or because the missile was fired to intercept a Russian missile.
Now consider what would need to happen for an S300 type missile from Ukraine fired at a target towards the north east and becomes errant and goes west in some fashion to hit Poland.
But really when you think about it, in terms of probability/statistics, you have tens or a couple hundred missiles from Russia moving in a south west trajectory in north western Ukraine, and you have Ukraine SAM/AA defenses engaging those missiles in a north east trajectory and firing angle.
And your telling me that you think it's more probable that a Ukrainian missile went errant in a west / north west direction versus say a Russian missile given bad coordinates, or malfunctioning (maybe from a near hit that damages the GPS/Flight controls of the missile) and overshooting it's intended target?
Like if a Ukraine missile fired at a Russian missile detonates near the Russian missile, what's the probability that the Russian missile is damaged in a manner that does not destroy it, but damages it in a way that it no longer is capable of hitting its target because the flight/guidance controls are in fault and not functioning properly.
So you are telling me that you wouldn't lie about this?
I would.
If it was a Russian missile that was unintentional and accidental.
Of course I would lie about it and say something else to keep tensions down, and reduce the risk of escalation.
But I'm sure the powers that be would never lie to avoid and reduce the risk of nuclear war.
Especially over an accidental and unintended attack.