If Afghan and Pak Taliban are so unrelated then why have Pak Taliban activities ramped up since the fall of Kabul?
May be the government is friendly but general view of Afghani about Pakistan is too low.
Taliban definitely use this hatred for Pakistan as a tool to get public trust.
They both are same (atleast ethnically) But having different mission.
One to rule Afghanistan and another one which is against pakistani establishment.
If I remember correctly the Pakistan Taliban is different from the Taliban that currently rules Afghanistan, which is friendly with the Pakistani government.
The primary leaders of the Mujahedeen formed the Islamic State of Afghanistan following the defeat of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
The biggest outcast from the Islamic State of Afghanistan was Gulbuddin Hekmatyar who now instead of waging war against the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan waged war against his former Mujahedeen allies.
It was this Northern Alliance, no longer led by Massoud due to his assassination on September 9th 2001 by Al-Qaeda, that retook most Afghan cities in 2001 before American infantry boots touched the ground.
They were of course aided by NATO air supremacy, and likely some military advisors on the ground.
In all of this, the Islamic State of Afghanistan failed to ever really form any central or federal institutions.
The Islamic State of Afghanistan was in charge in name only.
In reality the former leaders of the Mujahedeen that were not part of the government in Kabul became local lords that preyed upon the population.
The Taliban, literally Students, came about from Kandahar province under the leadership of Mullah Omar, a former low or mid level Mujahedeen, against the failures of the Islamic State of Afghanistan (both its ability to establish any sense or order, the constant fighting, and the fact that, like Hekmatyar, they found it was too liberal).
There isn't really a direct line between the Taliban and the leadership of the Mujahedeen, again, as the Taliban rose up against the now divided leaders of the Mujahedeen.
The former leaders of the Islamic State of Afghanistan then tried to form a resistance, known in the West as the Northern Alliance, with their most prominent leader being Ahmad Shah Massoud.
Massoud, along with Hekmatyar, was among the foremost of the original Muajhedeen.