CNN has fired pretty much all its hosts that are critical of the right.
Likely because they're owned by Warner brothers Discovery who's largest shareholder is Republican billionaire John Malone.
He's even said on the record he wants CNN to be more like Fox News with "actual journalism".
Fox News already has actual journalism though.
So he's just making Fox News 2, and in the process alienating the current viewer base with an almost zero percent chance of taking any viewers from Fox News.
Yes, but it's because they don't make a clear distinction between news and opinion.
Carlson, Hannity, etc.
are (bad) opinion shows and should not be taken at face value, and the problem is that so many people do, and Fox News is very much aware of that and abuses that lack of awareness.
It's on the website, might be peppered into the broadcast but I don't really care to subject myself to it.
But my point is that WarnerDiscovery wants to make a slightly less crazy Fox News, but there isn't a market for that.
There isn't anyone saying "Fox News is crazy, but CNN is too liberal.
".
noun.
Britannica Dictionary definition of FASCISM.
[noncount] 1. or Fascism : a way of organizing a society in which a government ruled by a dictator controls the lives of the people and in which people are not allowed to disagree with the government.
I believe governments monopolize violence to get compliance, would this not be an element of fascism?
Comply with government rules or violence against you is the consequences.
Sure necessary evil but still we do it.
You all have fascist ideas in your head whether you like to admit it or not, because our will to protect ourselves is greater than our will to have the risk of not using any fascist ideology to run a nation state, community, or organization in this day and era.
You are right people hold fascist ideas but everyone all across the political spectrum engages in some form of fascist ideology, they just believe they are righteous as they engage in fascist activity so it's okay when they do it they will just say it's for the good of the public.
No the argument was they're not truly fascist and I never said everyone's fascist only that you all have some fascist ideas and engage in fascist activity whether you admit it or not it doesn't mean you're a fascist, the CCP is a pretty fascist acting government but they don't categorize themselves this way.
There's nuance in politics I am not going to just accept I should demonize an entire percentage of US adults and label them all fascist because some people believe it's true.