"In particular, Barclays named CCH, Henkel, PMI, JDE Peet's and Carlsberg as having the largest sales exposure to Russia within the European consumer staples sector.
".
So, here's my thought.
How many US officials were tried and convicted of war crimes against humanity for dropping -- not one, but two -- atomic bombs on Japan??
Let that sink in.
War crimes are determined by those who "win."
There is no such thing as a "good war."
There is no such thing as a "clean victory."
There are, however, individuals -- atrocious individuals -- who use war as a way to release their inner monster.
But, I find it offensive to declare Russia -- all of Russia -- guilty of crimes against humanity.
I want to add the point that these are horrific regional conflicts, and Russia is intending to widely export its imperialism and its war crimes elsewhere.
Edit: I would agree the two are different though in that Russia is far more blatant about targeting civilians.
This might be more obvious to the public now than it was during the height of our paranoia, but the CIA made it clear to Bush that there were no nuclear weapons in iraq nor did they have the capability of manufacturing those weapons during his tenure.
Sorry, Bush will always be an opportunistic shitheel to me.
I know trump is fresher in everyone’s mind but the fucking PATRIOT act happened under this guy’s presidency.
He was in full support and that legislation’s legacy has devastated any meaningful concept of due process in our society.
Even if there were WMDs in Iraq, which decision makers definitively knew there weren’t at the time we sent people overseas, why the hell is this legislation still in place 20 years later?
Remember how people used to say “well I’m sure there are terror plots being foiled that the media doesn’t cover because of this”.
We found out during 2013 it didn’t stop .
Of course it got extended though.
And yes that was under Obama and he was obscenely wrong for that too, but I still blame Bush for lighting that match in the first place.
Most of the Taliban are charred ashes at this point but they still managed to change the way our society functioned overnight and taught us to jump at every shadow to say “boo”.
We lost face in a way that I still think puts our indignity under Trump to shame.
All it took was a handful of insurgents and a few airliners.
Shame on us for that.