I don't see why Russia would blow up infrastructure they already control in order to reduce exports, they were already doing that before this attack.
To me, it makes more sense that this is the work of another foreign power who wants these imports permanently stopped.
But most of the reasons that Russia would do this are pretty weak.
Blowing up infrastructure doesn't sow any distrust in NATO, and certainly doesn't scare any European countries that Russia will attack their infrastructure.
The only feasible one is that Putin is looking to disincentivize other powerful people in his country, though I think he has always had better means to do that than blow up billions of $ worth of infrastructure.
Plus, a pipeline that could be turned on if an when Europe caves is way more valuable than one that cannot be turned on - Putin wants Europe dependent on its gas, not cutoff from it.
Turning off the pipes is a strategy to remind Europe how valuable cheap Russian gas is...Blowing up the pipeline isn't.
If you don't see reasons why Putin would want to blow up the pipeline, you must be overlooking them on purpose.
I don't want to reiterate what multiple people have said in this thread, but please read some of the other comments and think about it again.
Well, let me elaborate from the German perspective: The blown pipelines gave Russia an excuse to get out of their natural gas delivery contracts with Germany, which were to run for at least a couple more years with good conditions (ie cheap price).
I think it’s also a Prince remember as long as the Northstream pipeline Was around, there’s always the possibility that Europe could abandon Ukraine and go back to buying Russian gas.
With Nord stream now destroyed European Union is now forced to back Ukraine, keep their sanctions on Russia, and look elsewhere for natural gas.
Because of the sanctions and the long term damage to the Russian economy, the Russians blew the gas lines.
They know that it will be years before they can get any equitable trade with the EU and the West will treat them as the enemy for decades to come.
Russia won’t have to spend critical resources to maintain the gas lines.