I hope you're right, but I'm not holding my breath.
Theranos wasn't in the financial sector.
Crimes in that sector generally go unpunished.
Consider the more similar case of Bernie Madoff.
He was arrested the day after his ponzi scheme unraveled.
SBF is still free.
I highly doubt forensic audits will find any smoking gun since all their internal communications channels automatically deleted.
They don't even have a list of depositors.
SBF knows how to get away with crime: leave no trace.
He won't be prosecuted.
Ponzi schemes are criminal enterprises.
The criminal mastermind SBF should be arrested for lying to people in order to gain their trust.
But elite media is instead laundering his reputation, likely because he bribed (sorry, donated to) them and their political allies.
I️ think the point of the title is because there were already articles about how much he donated to Democrats when his shady business dealings came public.
His donations to Republicans weren't yet known so they're being reported on now.
If you think of it as two news cycles, one on his D donations and one on his R donations it seems more balanced but still favors R since those donations weren't mentioned at all in the first cycle and this cycle is more distanced from his crypto scandal.
If you actually listen to his interview he says he donated equally to both parties, but had to make his republican donations dark because if he did not, the media would have picked it up and ran with it, not mentioning that he also gave equally to the dems as well.
him publicly donating to dems shows that he at least thinks the public sees them as "the good guys" .. combine with his family history, and without proof it is very fishy that he suddenly comes out to admit to more fraud with the only positive outcome being that the Dem party looks less sketchy, if only by the Republican party looking equally sketch on this specific issue.
because his parents are highly invested in the Democratic Party and it was a very bad story for them when this guy was stealing people's money and donating it to the Dems?
obviously, that's a bad look, and it's very easy for him to come out and counter that with "oh yeah, donated to the republicans too just can't tell you or show you where or how lol".
are they known now or is this just him making a claim?
his parents run pacs for dems.
is there any proof that he donated large sums to republicans beyond his "confession?
".