This is a clear example of oppression of a marginalized group.
There is empirical evidence that not having access to transgender healthcare leads to depression and suicide, so yeah people will die because of this.
No, there's just gonna be plenty of trans kids suffering egregious mental duress for precisely no reason that goes against what we already understand for gender-affirming care.
The recent surge of attacks on gender affirming care for trans youth have been , the , and the , and are out of line with the medical recommendations of the , the and , the , the , the , and the .
They're going to ban desperately needed healthcare and this shit is going to result in a lot of pointless suffering and deaths.
This treatment is very safe and well known, because it has been used for decades to delay puberty in children who would have otherwise started it inappropriately young.
If an adolescent starts this treatment then realizes medical transition isn't what they need, they stop treatment and puberty picks up where it left off.
There are no permanent effects, and it significantly improves trans youth's mental health and .
The only disorders more common among trans people are those associated with abuse and discrimination - mainly anxiety and depression.
Early transition , and .
When prevented from transitioning about 40% of trans kids will attempt suicide.
When able to transition that rate drops to the national average.
Trans kids who socially transition early, have access to appropriate transition related medical treatment, and who are not subjected to abuse or discrimination are.
But if an adolescent starts this treatment, socially transitions (or continues if they have already done so), and by their early/mid-teens they still strongly identify as a gender atypical to their appearance at birth, the chances of them changing their minds later are basically zero.
At that point hormone therapy becomes an option, and even that is still mostly reversible, especially in its early stages.
The only really irreversible step is reconstructive genital surgery and/or the removal of one's gonads, which isn't an option until the patient is in their late teens at the earliest.