It's very important to remember when judging whether Zelensky is acting in good faith here, that during his election campaign and his pre-war presidency, he was clearly seeking a degree of dialogue and reconciliation with Russia.
I absolutely do believe him when he says this is about broken trust.
Until Russia show clearly they are backing down, ie by leaving Ukraine, there is basically no reason for him or his government to believe any past good will is restored.
Now, the Ukranians are fighting to the end, because they know that they have no other option and if they show weakness, then their country is occupied and their people and culture is destroyed.
That is some pretty strong motivation.
Russia has lost half of its armor, and massive amounts of manpower, while Ukraine gains more daily.
In the long term, Russia never had the resources to win, and at this point, even if they managed to get to Keiv, they don't have the power to hold it long term with the rest of the world supporting Ukraine.
That’s not to say Russia can’t win at all either, nor are they harmless to Ukrainians, but to say that Ukraine cannot win is downright wrong.
And to conclude, I think your argument at its core is structured around the faulty premise that Ukraine can’t beat Russia.
If it were a year ago today, I would have agreed with you.
But it’s not, and I have a year’s worth of information that says the Russian army is nowhere near as mighty as you think it is.
This isn’t just me being filled with hopium or whatever the hell, but they absolutely can win against Russia.
The problems the Russian army are facing are very deeply ingrained in their military, and and are very difficult to overcome at peacetime, let alone during a war.
Have you considered what the people of Ukraine want?
The vast majority, between 70-86% of the people interviewed, are willing to continue fighting until Russia is kicked out of their homes.
It’s not just Zelensky.
There are three Zelenskies.
Campaign one, pre war president and war president.
Campaign one was a puppet risen through campaign by an oligarch.
After he won he started to display autonomy and war allowed him to embrace a very patriotic and heroic posture.
We cannot forget that when judging him in those three periods.