I love a lot of my medicaid patients but I probably can't keep doing this.
There's such an incredible amount of need and I just feel like I never make any headway fixing things for these patients.
Over the next year or two, I will probably end my participation entirely.
I'm a dentist, but the dynamics are largely similar.
Medicaid reimbursement is low.
I do see medicaid patients, which is rare for private practice in my county.
The amount I get paid isn't even what bothers me so much.
It's that the administrative burdens that come with medicaid are a nightmare.
There's just so much more that we have to do to do something like a specialist referral.
Oh, and the company that manages medicaid doesn't want me to refer anything out to save them money and constantly advises I practice beyond the scope I'm comfortable with.
And my patients come to me to fix the long referral wait times, which has nothing to do with me.
The provider network is small because the reimbursement sucks.
There's just dumb stuff that wastes everyone's time and our money.
We have some patients that need sedation.
They're disabled, can't cooperate, desperately need care.
I have to have them wait a long time to get in to see us so we can document that we tried and failed.
Then they have to wait a long time (I think at least 6 months right now) to see someone for sedation.
And they keep those patients assigned to me even though I can't treat them.
They do this so that can charge me for the cost of the referral.
(Past a low bar, I have to pay for referrals $ for $ out of money that is withheld from me throughout the year.
).
Its not really the case though.
The simple truth is that across the healthcare system, Medicaid services are typically performed at a loss for the practice or system, Medicare at cost plus, and Commercial is where most providers make their margins (Employer, ACA etc).
Hospitals cant turn people away, so Medicaid often means getting some payment instead of none.
Medicaid also allows for retro enrollment.
Individual practices (like pcps) provide non-emergent services, thus they CAN turn people away.
If you arent hurting for volume, the first to go are Medicaid recipients due to the lowest reimbursement rates.
The reimbursement is so low.
Sometimes it’s around 35$ per visit.
Crazy.
You loose money taking Medicaid patients in a private practice office.
For each patient you have to calculate the cost to run the office compared to the reimbursement.
With Medicaid you don’t get paid enough to pay for office staff and there is no profit.
Most providers who take them in private practice do it to be charitable.