EDIT: annexation of the West Bank would be catastrophic for both Israelis and Palestinians and should never happen.
Though they’ll face the harsh reality of the Palestinians not wanting peace but genocide of all Jews….
Tl.r : The Palestinians will never want peace unless it involves the genocide and exile of all Jews, and recent historical events showed it pretty well.
It’s funny how “The jews had evil intentions” is always a legitimate excuse but the Palestinians being hateful and hostile is never an option.
But the main issue is that people blame Israel for a situation it did not create, and criticize them for not reaching peace with a nation that doesn’t want peace, while portraying the Palestinians as perfect victims.
Poor Palestinians, only wanted to genocide the Jews, failed and kept their war mongering because ignorant like you keep supporting it.
The Palestinians massacred the Jews, when that wasn't successcul they allied with the Nazis, when the Third Reich fell they declared war to genocide them and fail, among several others..
Is that why they massacred Jewish villages in the 1920s, allied with the Nazis in the 1940s and declared a war with neighbor countries to genocide the Jews?
You do realize that Jews have persisted in the region despite all of the genocides right?
There are temples and Jewish communities that have continuously operated and have been on the land well before anyone even identified as "Arab".
The desire to build a "state of Israel" in lands already occupied by 100s of 1000s of Palestinian Arabs and Jews was itself a threat of aggression, one which Palestinians responded to proportionally.
My opposition is solely to the declaration of an Israel state in a land where Jews and Arabs had been coexisting peacefully for centuries prior, and the subsequent influx of non-native Jews into the land, consisting an organized settlement and colonization, and necessitating acts of ethnic cleansing on the Israelis side.
I never even said Jews shouldn't live in Palestine, I just said they had absolutely no right to the land, so any state created on that land by outside influences is fundamentally colonial in nature.
This is a fact.
This is my point.
There are parts of the West Bank that have been Jewish for literally thousands of years before anyone identified as "Arab", let alone before the religion of Islam was invented.
The Arabs (and Jews) that lived in Palestine prior to the mandate have more in common genetically to the people that lived there in roman times than you could ever dream of having.