And again, I cannot stress this enough, it takes roughly 500 gallons of water to put out a fire on a regular car, which is about how mich a firetruck can hold on average.
It took firefighters over 12000 gallons, or 24 fire trucks worth of water, to put out a SINGLE Tesla.
Tesla fires burn so hot they literally melt the frames of the cars into pancakes on the road.
This kind of fire is not only incredibly resource consuming, but also extremely dangerous for first responders.
Lithium battery fires are infinitely harder to put out than a regular car fire, by an order of magnitude that's incredibly concerning.
Every time a Tesla decides to cosplay being in the Troubles, it takes the fire department over an hour of continuous hosing to put it out.
We're talking thousands upon thousands of gallons of water and hours of fire department time to put out 1 car.
Imagine if 2 Teslas crash and ignite.
Or 3.
Or a dozen.
Except I didn't mention in relation to collision, I said under normal circumstances.
Your source is talking about when a car crashes, but I'm talking about when a car sits in your garage.
No shit gas is likely to burn when it's subjected to extreme force from a car crash, but you know what it doesn't do?
Ignite randomly.
Which Teslas DO.
Hell, your own source (the actual data, not the news article) outright states the most probable reason why EV cars aren't appearing to ignite as frequently in collisions is simply because there aren't as many EV cars on the road, period.
This doesn't debunk anything about the safety of Teslas, all it shows is a statistical hiccup caused by Teslas not being the dominant type of car on the road.
If you actually look with any depth ibto this issue itll be clear Tesla are market leading in car safety and with how they approach recalls and that its a good sign they don't care less if that comes with negative headlines.
If you bothered to read the article, Tesla is recalling mostly American made cars that were imported into China between 2013 and 2020 because Chinese regulators found safety issues with them.
> Further, Tesla has also recalled 2,736 imported Model 3 cars manufactured between January and November 2019, and 10,127 China-made ones of the same model produced between October 14, 2019 and September 26, 2022.