1) A man fails a drug test.
His boss comes by to fire him for it.
He says, "Wait, I had a poppyseed bagel that day, that can cause a false positive for opioids!"
His boss then points to the results also being positive for methamphetamine and cocaine.
"Uhh.. it was an everything bagel?
".
Frig.
Because I was thinking sometimes there’s a rule, and if 100% of people disagree maybe it’s not a good rule.
But no, it’s meth.
There’s just no arguing for meth.
Wild.
Meth as in the drug some skeez makes in a trailer is a different beast than the amphetamines I take as a prescribed treatment for my adhd thank you.
Let’s please not conflate one with the other.
One is drug abuse, one is medical treatment.
I'm not suggesting all street users of meth are using it in a way that is therapeutic.
Certainly there are those who use compulsively and fuck themselves up but we should keep in mind that this is not necessarily the case in every instance.
There is such a thing as illegal users who are also using moderately because they value their own health.
I think we should keep it clear that simply because it's illegal doesn't mean it's immoral or even dangerous.
Five cups of coffee can keep someone up all night too but we don't get so judgemental when someone drinks too much coffee.
But the key point is that they're Schedule II, not Schedule I so that means doctors are the ones arguing for their use.
Doctors also prescribe heroin, you know?
You understand that right?
These substances are not evil.
They have legitimate uses.
Cocaine also has legitimate medical uses.
Okay, perhaps I was missing your meaning.
I thought you were arguing that there is no valid use of meth.
But if there are valid medical uses of meth then why do we immediately say that anyone who uses it illegally is abusing it?
That was precisely how they demonized cannabis not long ago.
Why can't people use it illegally still be getting therapeutic effects?
Why does it instantly become this horrible abuse just because it is off-prescription?