Well, the ban just one just want to make normal functional AR like the treditional rifle ones for example the ban on pistol-grip, adjustable stock, and flash-hider.
Need to get away from "ugly gun laws" ref "featureless grip" and back to the excessive lethality of the weapon.
More time for semi-auto with more than (imho) 8 shot capacity.
So Thalidomide and Paragoric should still be on the shelves?
Not suggesting we ban private ownership of all guns, just the ones designed to kill the maximum number of human beings in the shortest amount of time - those weapons would be Semi-auto with large ammo capacity AND explosives, artillery, nukes and flamethrowers.
Now that's obviously an extreme example, but the point is that everyone has a "destructiveness" line for weapons, at which they agree individuals should be barred from possessing those weapons, whether they've thought about it or not.
My line may a lot lower than a lot of people's, but that doesn't mean it's inherently invalid, just unpopular.
There's obviously lots of room for debate on where exactly that line stands (full-auto?
Artillery?
How about "arms" used in cyber warfare, like viruses?
Chemical weapons?)
but as we clearly agree, you can easily lose the forest for the trees by fixating on this one particular disagreement, and that's been heavily encouraged to avoid real movement on positive change.
It's not punishing people, it's acknowledging that most people shouldn't have access to those weapons.
"It's not punishing people, it's acknowledging that most people shouldn't have access to those weapons.
".
Been saying this.
I obviously just want my gun rights left alone because it's something I personally value, but even beyond that, what we should be doing is trying to address the actual root causes of the violence rather than just slapping a gun ban bandaid over the symptoms.
For example, you could eliminate over half of all US gun deaths just by ending the drug war.
A giant portion of the "gun violence" problem is due to inner city gang violence, which is itself merely a consequence of drug prohibition.
Whenever you ban anything, you create a black market, which then becomes the financial fuel for organized crime to develop.
In the same way that alcohol prohibition lead to the 1920s mobsters and tommy gun shootouts in the streets, the modern war on drugs is directly responsible for much of the gang violence we see in our cities today.
Legalize all drugs and it goes away.
Plus then you're solving the problem by making people more free rather than less, which is just better.