The U.S. targeted the Russia-backed Wagner Group in a new round of sanctions on Thursday, labeling the mercenary group a transnational criminal organization and accusing it of atrocities in Ukraine and around the world.
The Wagner Group has roughly 50,000 personnel currently stationed in Ukraine, including 40,000 convicts who have been recruited from Russian jails, according to the White House.
Its fighters have recently been involved in heavy fighting in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, and forced Ukrainian troops to retreat from the town of Soledar this week.
The Treasury Department said it sanctioned eight individuals and 16 entities, many with ties to the Wagner Group.
The organization is a private military contractor led by Yevgeniy Prigozhin, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin who has also been sanctioned by the U.S. in the past.
"As sanctions and export controls on Russia from our international coalition continue to bite, the Kremlin is desperately searching for arms and support — including through the brutal Wagner Group — to continue its unjust war against Ukraine," Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement.
"Today's expanded sanctions on Wagner, as well as new sanctions on their associates and other companies enabling the Russian military complex, will further impede Putin's ability to arm and equip his war machine.
".
Yyyyup.
Wagner group is named after hitler's favorite composer.
That's not a coincidence, that's actually why they're calling themselves wagner.
Wagner has all manner of weapons in their disposal short of nuclear - tanks, heavy armor, planes, artillery systems.
They recruit from russian prisons above any law or authority.
The only person in russia who can allow that is putin.
Simply put, Russia does not care.
Any type of collateral damage to human lives or the country's reputation is worth it if they gain an inch.
They are literal nazis and named after Hitler's favorite composer Richard Wagner.
Putin does not care that he is fighting "nazis" with nazis.