Ultimately moving isn't easy one way or another, and if you want to live in an area even in a state like Michigan which actually has good schools or opportunities, rather than out in the middle of nowhere, then it will be expensive.
None of these states are as monolithic as you portray, and people seeking safer climes are going to want to go where their political affiliates are, not to whatever small town in a blue state is cheapest, for reasons that should be -manifestly obvious- if you've ever lived anywhere smaller than a major city.
.
That said.
The Republican party went mask off by at least 1984.
They'd bloomed to full early fascism by at least 2003 with all the redmap and gerrymandering schemes.
They went pants on head full psychiatric crazy by 2009.
2015 was a cry for help.
Which voting for them didn't provide.
Until we see a Republican candidate regularly, openly, and strongly calling out their party.
They can't be a moderate.
But the moment they do, they'll stop being a Republican.
I used to vote for Democrats.
I still do.
But I used to too.
I'm just not beholding to them anymore.
Well all I will say is don't stop questioning now.
Be prepared to question your capitalism too.
We've been indoctrinated and lied to about so many many things including that.
I used to be a socially liberal and fiscally conservative person voting for Democrats.
But when I realized that the most fiscal and resource conservative position there is, is socialism.
We could have nice things if we simply guaranteed a basic fundamental level of food housing etc and nationalized the resources necessary to provide for it.
Or at the very least if we fixed the minimum wage to a socially agreed upon standard of living.
Both would see the cost of living drop drastically.
If the minimum wage were tied to the actual cost of living in an area.
Companies would go out of their way to make the cost of living lower so as to reduce their expenses.
And I think most people would be perfectly fine with being able to live comfortably even if they weren't raking in a large amount of cash.