This just shows that you really don't understand.
The government can't do anything of what you are saying, it would be a huge scandal and break many laws.
The freedom of expression is the core of Sweden as a country, it's one of the four fundamental laws.
There is immense thought behind the laws stopping governments ability to restrict our freedom of expression.
It's to the point that they have to protect people with police during protests they deem risky.
Kinda weird argument bringing up Turkish made weapons as a reason why they are worth more when Sweden has even more of a weapons industry with weapons already used by NATO in droves.
It doesn’t, but keep in mind there are also other factions within Sweden who, for various reasons, do not want Sweden to join NATO, so they are egging this behaviour on as well.
I don't know what the Swedish government should do, but I know what it must do if it wants to get NATO membership.
It needs to show Erdogan face.
A lot of face.
That's his price.
Frankly, it is clear that the Swedish government also doesn't want to look like it's bowing to Erdogan's demands.
Perfectly reasonable.
But since Erdogan holds most of the cards, that position isn't tenable if NATO membership is seriously desired.
The way to negotiate with him Erdogan is to temporarily withdraw our NATO bid and tell his newspapers that we can't negotiate with him since we cant and won't remove our democracy in the process like they have in Turkey.
Strong bullies only respond to strenh and they hate being at the losing end looking weak to their population.
We can create other defence deals with the US and the rest of Nato meanwhile and maybe Finland that actually has a border to Russia join NATO.
Let the US build a naval base outside of Stockholm, and that's almost as good as being in Nato.
Why would the US open naval bases in Sweden?
It is an unnecessary provocation to Russia, and may itself provoke a war.
Also, the US isn't stupid.
It won't open a naval base just so that Sweden can get US protection.
The US has plenty of bases in the rest of Europe that serve American security interests as it is.