Also note that Ukraine participated in this battle deliberately, as it allowed them a kill ratio much, much higher than those available on other battlefields.
The Ukrainian military has proven to be an effective fighting force but Russia still has the numerical advantage in material and personnel.
Sure those tanks from the 70s are old and outdated, but Russia has a lot of them to throw at the Ukrainians.
This is why Ukraine has to be armed to the tits.
Yup, the United States DoD estimates Ukraine is losing just as many soldiers as Russia.
Russian military suffers from corruption and incompetence but they are still capable have inflicting heavy damage.
People on Reddit paint a rosy picture of Ukraine's situation.
hell of Zelenskyy were to make a Reddit post about where is country is at with this war, they'd call him a Russian bot.
Ukraine fudges their casualty numbers, and while I don't blame them for doing so, everyone else has a right to question the fantastical numbers coming from the UA MoD.
Even if kill ratio is something like 2:1 (I doubt it's 5:1 like some are suggesting) it's still not enough to win war of attrition against Russia.
All these "credible sources" completely ignore massive Ukrainian loses.
You can find some videos of trenches full of dead Ukrainian soldiers.
It's a very dangerous attitude, because so many in the West think that Russian army is some kind of completely useless zombie horde.
Some may think that what's the point of supporting Ukraine further since they are already easily winning against that "horde" themselves.
That's why you see such a rise in western support for Ukraine in the last days, because it's becoming evident that Russia is going all in and that this is their plan.
Just a few minutes ago Canada announced giving 200 armored transporters to Ukraine, which is pretty huge.
The situation this month is that in the area where Russians are actually doing offensive operations, Ukrainians are completely overwhelmed and are forced out (Soledar, Klischivka, and now the ongoing battle for Hrasna Hora, which is absolutely crucial for Bakhmut).
And keep in mind that this offensive is only done by Wagner, with the Russian army supporting them.
Ukrainians are warning that the actual Russian army is preparing a much larger strike, using the hundreds of thousands they have mobilized.
Their recent lead change certainly hints in that direction.
Truth is, Russia is slowly learning how to properly engage in such a war and they are slowly regaining the initiative.
If Ukraine doesn't get heavy support (much, much more than anything they've received so far) from the west, they will have to capitulate eventually.