Puerto rico is a liberal island, so upon its entry to the union as the 51'st state they would then Elect what would most likely be 2 new democratic senators to congress.
Because of this no republicans, let alone 10+ of them will get behind admitting Puerto Rico into the united states.
The republicans will never allow Puerto Rico to be a state.
Even if Puerto Rico were more ardently conservative, their base would never allow them to admit a Spanish-speaking state into the union.
It is a pipe dream.
What I don't get is why, if Americans refuse to allow Puerto Rico to really join the union, they don't allow Puerto Rico to simply go its own way.
I'm aware that Puerto Rico hasn't yet voted for independence, but that's because they are repeatedly given the option of statehood in such elections.
Why not be honest at this point and give Puerto Rico the ability to retain the status-quo or to go independent without an option for statehood since that's a pipe dream without 60+ senators in the senate firmly on the Democratic side.
Out of the many referendums held in Puerto Rico, only one didn't allow for statehood which is the most popular choice, and that was held in 2012.
Well I mean they have held referendums and surveys that do show a good chunk of Puerto Ricans wanting statehood, though I will admit the questions do suck at times for recent referendums.
Either way, the fact is there are those who want statehood, no matter that though you have to agree that letting the Puerto Ricans decide for themselves is the best course of action...
understandable because the most salient issue in Puerto Rican politics on the federal level, is probably their relationship with the rest of the United States.
Instead, in this most recent election Republicans actually won Miami-Dade.
The one bright spot for Republicans in the 2022 midterms.
If that was what Republicans truly assumed they would’ve written off Miami-Dade county a long time ago.
That is not necessarily true lol.
If I recall correctly the one state-wide elected representative they do have is a Republican.
Jennifer González Colon, elected in 2016.