In the article, the Nation makes a few valid points, but IMO, they missed mentioning quite a few contributing factors; in addition to the already mentioned gerrymandering, there was plenty of voter suppression, along with voter caging, several instances of reduced number of polling locations in heavily Democratic registered area, some polling places apparently ran out of ballots, early voting was significantly reduced, mail in voting was just about dropped completely in certain areas, and many reports of voter intimidation as well (Florida “election” police, for one).
Throw in the fact that mainstream Democratic politicians seem to fear progressive candidates so much they cut funding and support to the point it looks like they would rather have a Republican elected instead of a progressive.
Yeah, Democrats could have done much better, but all things considered, it should have been much worse.
If the Democrats didn't go after guns, they'd do very well.
To a Democrat, gun control laws may save lives, but to a gun owner, they're an unacceptable and unconstitutional civil rights violation.
It's NOT because Democrats don't actually want to restrict guns, and just use it as a talking point.
If that was the case, gun owners wouldn't have had to spend the last 25 years fighting in the courts to get the rights we have today.
If Democrats weren't actually trying to restrict guns, we'd have constitutional carry as the law of the land (you can carry a gun without a permit), the Hughes Amendment would have been repealed (so you can buy machineguns), the NFA would have been repealed (so you can buy suppressors and unusual firearms like short barrel rifles without a special permit), and shooting sports like marksmanship and trap/skeet would still be optional electives in every American high school.
I see little difference between R and D here.
Both groups want to take away someone's rights.
Both groups regularly make serious (actual, not just rhetorical) attempts to do so.
If success was guaranteed, both groups WOULD take away rights.
The difference you are citing is that one group has been more successful than the other at taking away people's rights.
I'd argue that's either because Republicans are more competent at politics (there's a terrifying thought) or because guns are explicitly protected by the US Constitution, while abortion is not.