I would like to say as someone that had a less pleasant experience getting my vasectomy a few months ago: your results may vary on pain and time.
Mine was about 1.5 hours long and fairly painful even with lidocaine, so just know that it's absolutely worth it, but it's still a surgery and things can go wrong and pain can absolutely be a factor.
For what it's worth, I got a vasectomy a few weeks ago with general anesthetic, but it's still a way less invasive thing than tubal ligation or bisalp.
Honestly, I had zero trouble getting home, spent the rest of the day with some cold peas on my nuts, and was pretty much a'ok.
The next few days after that were mostly a matter of having some extra compression to keep things from moving, more cold as necessary, and taking it easy.
Relatively little pain during the whole thing.
On some level, if vasagel were a real option and not perpetually 5 years away, I might prefer that, just as a hypothetical "maybe less damage and complication risk".
But I'm also not really interested in having kids, so I just kinda bit the bullet and decided that I'd rather end the risk and quit worrying during sex with my gf.
That said, I never thought that single guys started getting vasectomies after Dobbs because they thought it would get them more sex, I thought they started getting them because they didn't want an oops pregnancy with no option to terminate.
That said for those guys who think getting a vasectomy means women will factor that into their choices to have promiscuous sex, you're going to be disappointed.
First it's not the easiest thing to work into a conversation without coming off creepy.
Second women worried about pregnancy typically handle protection themselves and likely to be just fine with not having sex outside of a relationship anyway.
I've seen guys have this idea that once they get a vasectomy their "value" will go up and they'll be having more sex.
Look I get sometimes if your dating profile pic is your f250 lifted truck you'll get an extra swipe or two.
But for the most part this is not the honeypot you think it is.