Well, it states that congress won't enact any laws that favor any single religion.
"Separation of church and state" is verbiage used by Thomas Jefferson in a letter, but isn't in our actual constitution.
It SHOULD be, though.
Oh yeah.
No doubt that comes into major play here as they are using their ultra-Catholic views to steer their interpretations of the words used by our founders.
Government shall not support or suppress religion......
In other words, stay neutral but this court is interpreting those words quiet differently.
Much as they have done with the second amendment ..."the right to bear arms by a well armed militia"......
This was long before there was a state military, state or local police forces and only local militias were there to protect the citizens.
Although the words “separation of church and state” do not appear in the First Amendment, the "establishment clause" was intended to separate church from state.
When the First Amendment was adopted in 1791, the establishment clause applied only to the federal government, prohibiting the federal government from any involvement in religion.
By 1833, all states had disestablished religion from government, providing protections for religious liberty in state constitutions.
In the 20th century, the U.S. Supreme Court applied the establishment clause to the states through the 14th Amendment.
Today, the establishment clause prohibits all levels of government from either advancing or inhibiting religion.
The " establishment clause" separates church from state, but not religion from politics or public life.
Individual citizens are free to bring their religious convictions into the public arena.
But the government is prohibited from favoring one religious view over another or even favoring religion over non-religion.
If you mean influencing the taking away of basic human rights, then you are correct.
But remember, the founders of America put Separation of Church and State as the guiding principle of our founding and why did they do that????
Because the church of England was the only sanctioned church in Great Britain and they wanted freedom from forced religious beliefs.
Read and learn so that you will be better educated about how and why our country was founded and why the pilgrim's left england.