Part A) State courts have a constitutional duty to see if the law (redistricting) violates the state constitution or other state laws.
Federal Courts have a constitutional duty to see if the law (redistricting) violates the Federal Constitution.
Now for a state that gets a new house seat or seats.
They remain vacant until new districts that pass constitutional muster are drawn then special elections are held.
Again if it takes a long time, then citizens hold their elected officials accountable in the elections.
Same mechanism judges use all the time to obtain compliance.
Hold the individual state legislative members in contempt of court and issue daily fines.
If that doesn't work, issue a contempt of court warrant of arrest.
Start with the house and senate leaders.
I'm sure that would jump start them if they see members of the legislature being locked up for contempt of court.
(but that might no pass constitutional muster).
Part B) A court may not appoint anyone to make a law (redistricting).
Find the law unconstitutional or in violation of another law and send it back to the legislature.
The NC SC found a map by NC legislature unconstitutional (with the NC Constitution).
This is normal judicial review and is hardly the first time courts then drew a redistricting map.
Legislatures should have to follow their own states' Constitution, and I hope you agree with that sentence.
The fact remains, there is nothing in the constitution (not sure ab out NC law) given the judicial branch legislative powers (pass a redistricting law).
There is nothing in the constitution giving judges the authority to draw district boundaries by appointing special masters.
Please give me the section of the constitution (federal or state) that gives courts this authority?
Doesn't exist in the Federal Constitution.
If state lawmakers put it in their state constitution, then by all means they have the authority.
otherwise the court can do jack shit other than say the redistricting law is unconstitutional and can't go into effect.