Azerbaijan and Israel have been allied for quite a while.
In fact Azerbaijan used Israeli Harop loitering munitions with great success in their recent war.
Cutting all the bullshit and going straight to the point; Israel has nothing to gain by supplying weapons to Ukraine.
Now I don't know yet what exactly Israel will supply now that US demanded more involvement in helping Ukraine fighting Russia, but the point still stands if you think about it.
Israel will do anything to defend itself better.
When Israel gives great medical care to injured Syrian or Palestinian fighters, that makes Israel look strong.
When Israel brings 100 sick children from all over the world, including Gaza, to give those children top treatment, that makes Israel look strong.
When Israel sends expert teams to enemy or neutral countries to help those countries cope with terrible disasters, that makes Israel look strong.
When people go on r/Israel and post posts implying that the Bedouin are all a bunch of rapists, or obsess about how negative they believe world news organizations are about Israel, that makes Israel look less strong.
But, at the same time, when people who support Israel write in a super dismissive, hostile, uncompromising, self-pitying way, those people chip away at that public relations asset.
It's often terrifying on r/Palestine, but the tone in these comments on r/Israel is very hostile toward anyone even 1 degree away from a really hawkish, isolationist kind of approach to governance and foreign policy.
And, I recognize: The terrorism, irrational hatred and open warfare aimed at Israel are traumatizing.
Maybe the tone showing up on r/Israel is an inevitable symptom of that trauma.
But I hope Israelis who are able to manage that trauma can understand how weak the "Everyone is antisemitic, everyone hates us, we'll deal with them harshly, we'll ditch America and ally ourselves with China and Russia" kind of rhetoric makes Israel look.
I hope that countries like Azerbaijan work to have a genuine, warm, constructive peace with Israel, and then work with other Muslim countries to organize an intervention and to try to get both ultra nationalist Israelis and ultra nationalists Palestinians to calm down.
If, say, Armenia and Azerbaijan could somehow start to get along better themselves, and they were speaking with both Israel and Palestine about constructive ways to resolve conflicts, maybe they'd have the standing to help Israelis and Palestinians communicate in a better way and, above all, to make sure that regular Palestinians have a decent quality of life while people are talking.