The first one literally had an abbreviation of "Communist Party of China" written on it in Chinese.
I mean, yeah, anyone could technically stick that on a balloon, but who would?
True, China publicly claimed that one.
Could be Russia or someone realized "wait, they let balloons through their airspace?"
and jumped on it.
You never know.
ya.
you'd think.
I'm not saying it's true.
I'm just saying it popped up on my phone thru my "news break" app.
There are articles online about it and it's all over Twitter.
I didn't go looking for this information or saying its in anyway true.
But something is definitely weird.
This is the 4th "ufo" the US has shot down in the past week.
The 1st one was identified as a balloon and the other 3 have just been called "objects" or ufos.
They're not even dismissing the possibility of aliens either.
they're just saying - "we don't know what it is or where they're coming from".
And I've seen other reports that these are popping up in other parts of the world as well.
Supposedly China and I think it was Australia.
Who knows wtf it is.
Could just be some private civilian company.
Could be freaking drones.
I have no idea.
In any case it's concerning..
ya.
it popped up on my shitty "news break" app on my phone tho.
I have a Twitter account but that's not where I saw it initially.
it popped up like as an alert or a text or whatever you want to call it.
but I agree with what you're saying.
if they were shooting military planes out of they sky you'd think they'd be grounding civilian aircraft.
Unless of course they're trying to somehow keep this quiet.
I'm sure grounding flights would be the last thing they want to do and would be absolutely devasting to the economy and would cause pandemonium.
Perhaps they've known about ufos all along and have been trying to keep it quiet bc just that.
idk.
I'm not saying it's not.
how the fk would I know.
I popped up on my news feed and it's on Twitter..
I'm just saying I that I just read an article about it and thats what some people are saying.