If the woman was working as law enforcement, that would be obvious entrapment, and totally unacceptable.
The bar is not that the enticement is so strong that nobody could be held responsible for not resisting it.
The bar is, it is impermissible for law enforcement to encourage you to commit a crime you wouldn't otherwise have committed, period.
I think the difference here would be that a cop saying they'll bang you if you do something illegal isn't entrapment if you then agree to try to do the illegal thing.
It would only be entrapment if you refuse and they arrest you anyway for conspiracy to commit a crime, because the conspiracy was fabricated by the LEO and you never went along with it.
No.
That would not be entrapment.
It doesn't matter whether you're a contract killer, drug dealer, or person with no priors whatsoever.
What matters is that you indicated a proclivity for crime by agreeing to willfully and knowingly engage in a criminal act in exchange for some form of compensation or favor, which would be sex in this case.
You have chosen to willingly participate in a crime.
That is a thing that criminals do.
Therefore, in so doing, you have shown a proclivity for criminal activity, and cannot argue that you were a victim of entrapment.
An example of entrapment would be if someone sent you something illegal in the mail unsolicited (drugs, child porn) and you had no intent to posses either and were arrested.
A legit example of entrapment would be like the police stealing your passport if you were a non U.S. resident, and then telling you they won't give it back to you so you can leave the country legally unless you commit some crime for them.
It's only entrapment if the agent was coercing you...if they threatened you or implied consequences in the event that you didn't go along with the planned illegal activity.
A honeypot isn't entrapment if they're saying they'll give you something you want in exchange for doing something illegal.
You're making a choice there, which provides intent.
It would be entrapment if it were a more conventional honey trap...if they banged you, then said they would make the sex publicly known in a situation where that would impact you negatively, thus coercing you to go along with something you wouldn't participate in if they didn't have leverage against you.