Russia paying the price for twenty years of aggression and murder for bargain basement prices too.
"So General, if we keep all this old Cold War equipment we bought when I was still in the Senate we'd have to keep paying to maintain and store it just in case WW3 breaks out, right?
".
Yup.
The world is in this situation with Ukraine today because twice before the international community has done essentially nothing when Putin twice invaded the territory of sovereign neighbors: Georgia in 2008 and Ukraine in 2014.
The world let Russia invade South Ossetia, Crimea, and the Donbas with almost zero consequences.
Why wouldn’t Putin think that he could continue taking land and destabilizing the region if they aren’t subservient?
Hitler got away with taking the Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia, and it encouraged him to sign a pact with Stalin for the Nazis and Soviets to invade and divide up Poland.
The world needs to remember this, because we are currently repeating the same mistakes, and just getting lucky that Russia is so much more incompetent than the Nazis were (not to diminish the stellar job that Ukraine has been doing to defend themselves).
they wouldn’t, Putin maybe a an asshole and cunt but he isn’t stupid, he attacked Ukraine before they apply for NATO, he isn’t attacking any NATO country because it would be straight up suicide and his own administration would kill him for it.
With what we have seen of Russia’s conventional warfare capability, I doubt they could take the European Union, even though they don’t have the most powerful military in the world (USA).
France has nuclear weapons, so in theory that threat should be canceled out (MAD), and also a NATO member, so any attempt to take out France on their own territory would trigger NATO to step in.
Not saying there is not reason to let Finland into NATO, but it feels like the immediate threat isn’t actually that big.
I guess the only part that might become a problem is the “to their abilities” part.
I imagine some countries could get away with financial aid/weapons, if they come up with reasons to not send troops.