He’s right as much as you hate to hear it.
This war has to end and the only way it will end is through negotiations.
And unless Ukraine invades Russia and get rid of Putin (not going to happen) then Putin will not concede that the war is lost and it will continue to be a meat grinder for both sides and Ukraine civilians.
If Putin thinks that there's no way out of this war except victory, if he thinks that quitting would be worse for him or worse for Russia than continuing to fight, then Putin will continue to fight and people will continue to die.
What Macron is proposing is an off-ramp, a way for Putin to pull out of the war with better outcomes than if he lost; it turns our stomach to think about giving any sort of leeway to despots, but that leeway has the potential to save lives and it shouldn't be off the table, at the very least it is beneficial for Vladimir Putin to believe that leeway exists and he might have a way out.
I see that Macron's general idea is to entice Putin to negotiate by making the "off-ramp" which consists of making Putin comfortable for negotiations by promising him "security guarantees" so he can spin his "Russia was just a victim" propaganda bullshit, end the war asap and get away with everything, or something like that.
I also want to remind people that Putin will use negotiations as a way to regroup and amass new forces for a new invasion, so any negotiations before Russia is completely out of Ukraine are pointless, naive, and stupid.
And the day Macron won't get shit on for this idea is the day I will give up on Europe, or at least write a strongly-worded letter.
All these talks about "off-ramp" are meaningless unless you are being specific.
What exactly would serve as an "off-ramp" for Putin?
Because when people talk about it in such abstract ways it feels like they try to expand the Overton window to make this topic more acceptable for later.
The fact that some people (and you) want to start discussing how to appease a Hitler to save lives is both hilarious and deeply concerning.