I don't think it's an issue of balls, it's a problem of pro-Russian populace and lack of military capability.
I think the latter can be dealt with, but would need help from other countries.
Maybe after Ukraine finishes killing Russians on their land, they can help Moldova.
Since the war in Ukraine, Moldova no longer gets its gas from Russia, and so Transnistria is also not getting it anymore for free.
The people from that region are quite poor and the demographic is old, and they wouldn't be able to pay the same prices as the rest of country.
Also, they became really accustomed to not paying, heating up their homes to really high temperatures during the winter, and at some point lots of people set up bitcoin farms there because electricity was so cheap.
But they are extremely pro-Russian.
Their "government" is chosen by Russia and also people used to go to Russia either for University or work, very few were choosing Moldova.
Now that they are getting the bills, they are requesting lower prices, which they already get, but they still don't agree on a reintegration plan no matter how many meetings are held between the two governments.
You can travel quite easily between the two regions if you're an ordinary citizen.
At some point people from villages close to them were doing their shopping there because it was cheaper.
Also Ukraine was the one that allowed the russian troops to get access to that region and also supported them.
That time was really difficult for everyone here, because the country gained it's independence barely one year before the war there, people were extremely poor, and moldovans still don't trust Ukraine because of that.
Now we are helping the people in whatever way we can, because we understand how bad it is for them, but there's still a sense of distrust.
So let me add on to this as someone from Moldova.
So that "free" gas that was given to Transnistria wasn't actually free, last year Russia sent the bill to the moldovian government for all of it when they were trying to sign up a new contract with a new price.
Russia was saying that they weren't going to send us any more gas until all of the "debt" is paid.
This was during the cold months and it felt more like blackmail due to the fact that the current government is pro-EU and they have the majority.