no there was a republican representative i think about 10 years ago that claimed wind power investment was dangerous because it could slow down the wind causing some unexpected cascade of environmental effects.
and just to follow his train of thought as an academic exercise instead of treating it as the disingenous support of the fossil fuel industry that it is, when we use the electricity a significant part of the energy is going to recycle back into heat and into the air returning the energy to the wind via heat currents anyway.
the proportion that would be lost into space via radiation would be the minority of it.
but again not that it matters as its like worrying if taking a few grains of sand will destroy the beach.
its one of those things thats technically true but also dumb beyond belief at the same time.
the energy we would be extracting from the wind to convert into electricity would be so infinitesimally small compared to the total amount of the energy in the wind it would be of zero effect.
This is why wind and solar will never replace coal or gas, they just cant do it alone and if you could do it with storage the electricity would cost so much no one could afford to use it.
Yes, but the claim was that saying solar energy was going to beat coal was misleading because coal is used elsewhere besides electricity production.
That's pretty obvious, the title isn't misleading.
That's like saying "bananas are expected to outsell apples," and arguing "but steak is outselling bananas so clearly bananas arent going to outsell apples".
That doesn't make any sense.
It’s not that misleading really.
Electricity accounts for only 22% of total energy consumption in the US, and is at a similar percentage globally.
The rest is used for transportation, heating, industry, etc.
Less developed countries with undeveloped grids tend to have less than 20%, with Nigeria having only 5% of their energy used for electricity.
Of course, most of that energy comes from fossil fuels and that isn’t likely to change.
The countries with the largest share of energy being used for electricity are In Scandinavia, because of the incredibly cheap and abundant geothermal and hydro power there.