That's a bit of a caricature though.
Science inherently descriptive not prescriptive.
We use models and equations to describe how the world works not that the world necessarily works that way.
A good way to think of it is Laws in science explain / predict how something works, and theories explain why.
Einstein’s theories gave us a better way to understand gravity, as a curvature in spacetime caused by mass.
That curvature is observable.
It shows up in every deep space image as a lensing effect, and has even been used to detect dark matter, as some regions appear to have more gravity than they should based on observable mass.
I mean, we already know there is some debate over missing mass which leads to the assumptions about undetected dark matter... maybe the answer is imply that there are galaxies out there which are far denser than they thought they were, which accounts for the missing mass.
But if the galaxies are ridiculously dense, couldn't it just be that the material is spread among a lot of smaller stars, making them cooler than the sparse huge stars would be?
Or maybe big galaxies can form in a much shorter time period than the current assumptions being made.
Currently the closest thing i could garner is that they were expecting to see some small galaxies, and didn't.
Which to me doesn't sound that surprising... because if all that material was there forming solar systems, then having giant fucking dense galaxies occur first is more logical to me, than a bunch of small less dense galaxies.
I mean, the fact we have galaxies at all instead of basically big web shaped nebula type things only separated by supernova driving matter apart, is ind of wild to begin with.
TL;DR is that they're finding galaxies that appear as old as our own close to a time that was thought to have been the period where the universe had formed but galaxies hadn't yet.
As this seems like a bit of a contradictory statement... I.e they are finding galaxies which are 'older' in a location where they'd expect the galaxies to be 'younger'..?