Your veins are coursing with plastic, weather patterns are shifting into unpredictability that threatens the food supply, and giant methane craters are exploding in the tundra, but have you TRIED just BEING OPTIMISTIC?
.
Yeah.
It's hard to overstate how good the US and Russia have been dismantling their arsenals from Cold War peaks.
Both have drawn down over 90% of their nuclear weapons, and the largest bottleneck in removing more is that dismantling the things is slow and expensive.
The United States in the 60's had over 30k nuclear bombs or warheads and by 1986 the Soviets had 45k nuclear bombs and warheads.
Many of these were tactical nukes meant to be used by fighter jets or short range missiles on the frontline of battles.
Please go to China and live there, especially as a foreigner.
Have fun checking in with the police within 24hours to give them your address and information and getting knocks at your door week after week, especially if you're black.
Enjoy the great firewall and please watch what you say in public especially about the government.
Also please enjoy the massive hotel/apartment that was built in 3 weeks and will start cracking in 3 years.
Not at all, especially if they ever want to take on the United States, Japan, South Korea or the West.
We have the most advanced and capable air defense in the world.
You don't pull your punches in a fight, especially one desperate enough to use nuclear weapons.
Fortunately most of those lunatics don’t have access to hundreds of ballistic missiles.
It’s easy to neutralize any threat from them with an agirà cruiser or land based missiles that can intercept an icbm in its vulnerable boost phase where it is moving relatively slowly into the upper atmosphere.
There’s a much better chance of intercepting those missiles when they’re boosting than compared to when they enter space or when their warheads renter the atmosphere.
I’d like to believe for that to be the truth, but other nations are pretty decent at gathering intelligence and most anti-ballistic missile systems are heavily regulated by the SALT and other treaties.
It’s possible to hide small scale operations within black budgets, but big heavy spending projects are sniffed out by members of Congress pretty readily.
At it stands there aren’t a whole lot of ways to counter a ballistic missile.
There aren’t a lot of ways to counter an inbound ICBM.
All known methods are regulated by the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaties.
There’s no super secret way to defend against them.