You are, unfortunately, and frustratingly correct.
Proving Trump’s mental state and intent has always been the difficult piece of this puzzle as it often is in criminal cases.
Trump’s defense will undoubtedly fall on his “honest belief” that he won the election and that he heard all these things about fraud and he wasn’t asking him to change the count but rather to look into any fraud.
It’s a complex, incredibly difficult prosecution – we all know what he did but if you take the shot here (or anywhere else in those other cases) you must hit the target dead on with a kill shot.
I think one issue Trump may have is if, at any time, he admitted he knew he lost the election … some of his defense starts to unravel.
Again, and this relates to my other comment, they do not need to prove that Trump believed that he didn’t have enough votes.
You merely have to prove that a reasonable person couldn’t believe that given the information Trump had at that time.
The problem is that believing crazy conspiracy theories that stroke his ego is kind of Trump's thing.
Fortunately for us, lying is Trump's other thing.
Much of the trial will center around discerning whether Trump was lying or deluded.
Which pretty much sums up what all of us were doing 2016-2020.
Solicitation off election fraud in Georgia carries a sentence of 1-3 years, which is pretty low, bit it's better than nothing.
Unfortunately in the case of Georgia's "solicitation to commit election fraud" law, this is a defense.
The prosecution must prove that Trump's intention was to have Raffensberger commit a crime.
If Trump's defense can persuade that Trump believed what he said --that he was asking Raffensberger to investigate and find fraudulent votes he genuinely believed existed--then Trump was not soliciting a crime and therefore was not guilty (of that particular crime: we all know the fucker is guilty of a lot of other shit).
At the same time, there is verifiable public evidence that Trump committed crimes on state and federal levels, yet all we ever see is the DoJ dragging its feet and a special grand jury with no teeth, as well as a congressional committee with no teeth writing s report that Garland will throw in a drawer in the DoJ basement, meaning Trump will never see the inside of a jail, ever.
I presume the grand jury had a lot of evidence to examine beyond the phone call: hopefully there is a preponderance of evidence demonstrating that Trump definitively knew his fraud allegations were false and knew he was asking Raffensberger to commit a felony.
Because ultimately proving Trump's mental state at the time of the call is going to win or lose the case, no matter how obvious it looks from the outside.