In 1949 the CCP expelled all foreign Catholic functionaries from the country.
When that didn't cause Catholicism in China to collapse they created a "Patriotic Catholic" organization in 1957, to take control of all Catholic churches and clergy.
They rejected the Vatican's authority and allowed the CCP to appoint bishops.
Needless to say, the Vatican retrained substantial control over underground Catholic parishes that "ghost" the official churches.
The "best" solution would be for the CCP to have substantial influence to check the church's teaching but not forcing doctrine and practice that convinces people that attending a secret illegal version of the church is the better choice for them.
It's hard to deliver basic services and important rituals like marriage and last rites if you have to do them secretly.
Since 2018 the two were supposed to have fully merged, with the CCP being able to nominate all bishops with the Vatican selecting from a short list and having veto if the list is unacceptable.
This is in line with how Church kept the peace with medieval Kings and modern military dictatorships, allowing governments to nominate bishops but shutting down more extreme nominees.
The point being to ensure that people get rites when they need them and to prevent unnecessary crackdowns on the community.
The benefit of not doing so seems to be to allow them to control more of their own people via religious pressure.
Doesn’t seem like they see any benefit to merging the two, and I’m not really sure how that benefits anyone (including citizens) other than the Vatican, as it gives them more influence in China.
Now, a government having more influence over people by preying on their religious insecurities is certainly not something I’d support, but the Vatican does the same thing, so I don’t see much of a difference here as far as the end result on people.
Edit: apparently a lot of you take issue with me saying the Catholic Church isn't totalitarian or genocidal.
I suppose I should clarify that I meant the CURRENT Catholic Church.
Obviously the Catholic Church has been a force for great evil at several points in its history.
Even today it has serious problems with corruption and scandals.
But if you're going to accuse the current Vatican of genocide and totalitarianism you better be able to back it up.
If you're going to blame Catholicism for millenium-old crimes then you also have to blame countries for all their crimes across history, in which case everyone should burn in hell.
In regards to religions and cults, just because you think you're enlightened and know the truths of the universe doesn't mean every other set of beliefs is worthless or cult-like.
You can't prove God isn't real anymore than you can prove he is.
And you can't deny that, despite all the evil, religion has done a lot of good, too.
Hospitals, schools, homes, etc are all things that were built primarily by religious organizations for centuries.
Whether God is real or not, the belief in him has helped countless people with mental health struggles and continues to do so today.