I work in manufacturing and we have quarterly meetings that everyone in the plant has to attend to discuss what's going right/wrong and where we're losing/making money.
Up until the first or second meeting this year shipping and supply distributions were the 2 biggest issues discussed.
We had guys from the floor in the meetings looking at the data calling it a hoax.
It's the exact same tactic the GOP use against the Postal Service.
Gut the hell out of it, make it impossible for it to make money, watch it slowly die from inefficiency, and complain about a problem they caused so they can push for privatization.
It's all in the name of putting more money in the hands of the private sector (or to put it a other way corporations) by gutting public services.
22 states and Washinon DC do this.
Because I'm bored on break I decided to look into which states these are and where they rank on education compared to the rest of the country.
Out of the 3 different studies I found on a quick Google search (one of which was cited on Fox News) I marked down which of the 22 states + DC were listed in the bottom 25.
10 of those were listed in the bottom 25 in all 3 articles, 14 were listed in 2 or more, and 17 were listed in at least 1.
One of the studies didn't include DC at all and so it could at most be in 2.
Now of the 17 that have School Choice laws and rank in the bottom half for education 10 are red states, 4 are purple, and 8 are blue as of the beginning of 2022 according to Wikipedia (I don't think using a map based on the recent election is fair because it literally just happened and none of those seat changes are currently in effect) .
Make of that what you will but I'd say the evidence points pretty hard towards School Choice laws being a bad idea when 68% of the bottom half of states(+DC) ranked on education is made up of 77% of the states(+DC ) with school choice laws.
If you're going to take everyone's money, throw it all in a pot, and then hand it out for the purpose of education then why are you also going to be incredibly restrictive and give me 1 school to pick from?
This isn't about hand outs.
This is about funding education.
Are you arguing that we get rid of education funding?
Because YOU are advocating for "forcing every other parent to follow" what you want because most people don't have the money to give to their local school and to a different school.
YOU are the one forcing your lessons.
I want people to be able to pick.
You are already able to pick.
It’s not the taxpayers’ problem if you refuse the multiple options available and just want us to bail you out with free money because you want to have a special option.
It shouldn’t be on Big Government to get involved to take more of taxpayers’ money just to fund entitlements like this.