The nuclear arsenal is (supposed to be) the ultimate deterrent, for every country.
That they're reduced to using their delivery systems in this way shows a level of desperation not many would have considered possible at the start of the year, and is still difficult to comprehend even now.
Every military has a finite amount of munitions, and war has a nasty habitat of using far more materiel than can be replaced - while estimates of stockpiles vary (and there's information that we're absolutely not privy to) Russia absolutely is burning through it's equipment & stores faster than they anticipated.
You only need look at the state of what conscripts are issued with, and how old the equipment now being destroyed is.
That said, you're right that the age of lethal munitions is academic given the terrible toll imposed upon Ukraine.
Potentially, which would negate point 1 I made - point 2 is still a distinct issue given the lack of professionalism & expertise exhibited by Russia so far in this war.
Does the Russian military inform other countries that it’s a dummy nuke so they don’t get glassed over a misunderstanding?
Or are there spies in their military that inform us?
Or do we just wait and see whether or not it’s a “nuclear” level explosion when it goes off before activating MAD?
In just 5 years there’s a good chance it fails to produce a nuclear explosion and it will be far lesser than intended even if it does.
The degradation is exponential, so within 20 years there’s no realistic chance of a nuclear explosion and after 10 it’s pretty unlikely.
I think it's a bit naive to assume that the trigger of 50 unmaintained warheads would fail to start a nuclear reaction close to 50 times.
There are many kinds of nuclear warheads.
I obviously have no idea what types Russia has in their arsenal, but some of them can be stored for a long time and even those that don't are often described as producing an unpredictable yield beyond a certain time spent in storage.
Unpredictable yield does not sound great, when you have a rocket aimed right at your face sitting in a big metropolitan city somewhere.
It's called a stockpile for a reason, it's not unreasonable to assume that Soviet scientists of a bygone era made at least some of them very robust in this regard.