It's more like the UK saying it had to invade Ireland because Ireland has leprechauns, and as everyone knows, obviously that's an existential threat to the UK that it can't tolerate, so it has to "de-leprechaun" Ireland to liberate it from the oppressive and illegitimate leprechaun regime.
>He argued that the UK would do the same if Ireland banned its people from speaking English, and that France would invade Belgium if it banned the French language, according to a British government source who described the argument as a “false parallel”.
What Lavrov said is exaggerated, but if indeed Ireland demoted English’s status and tried to remove it from public spaces, the British would be very unhappy.
They wouldn’t declare war, but Russia didn’t invade Ukraine only for language policy.
Ukraine hasn’t “banned” Russian explicitly.
It has designated Ukrainian as the sole acceptable language of the state, including administration, media, education, and services.
With a country like Ukraine with a variety of ethnic minorities who have lived there before Ukraine had a state with borders (Hungarians, Polish, Jewish, Russian, Tatar), this is a highly offensive policy because it deprives communities of the right to participate in their own spaces in their native languages.
This means that newspapers, schools, and essential services CANT be offered in another language.
Even in the US, you can request a Spanish translator for essential services, and there are bilingual schools (Indigenous), and there are monolingual papers some minorities publish.
The formation of a state has historically followed geography, in the case of Europe especially (GB, France, Spain, Germany, Austria, Hungary).
But European colonization threw that out of the water, and decolonized states inherited colonial borders regardless of geography (Indonesia, Nigeria, Mali, Sudan).
Most states in the world (ie the 54 states of Africa, the Arab states in the Middle East, East and Southern Asia) are ALL determined by their colonial past.
Which, for reference, was 60-80 years ago.
Ukraine’s borders, for it’s part, are determined from the Soviet Union, not geography.
Uh, Ukraine has convinced the Western World that Russian expansionism is a threat to European peace.
India, China, Brazil, most of Africa, and the Middle Eastern states are relatively cold towards the conflict if you read their official statements.
They are mostly against the concept of war, not Ukraine’s “territorial integrity”.