First, not a liberal.
Second, where did I complain about the electoral college?
Third, you haven’t elaborated.
Please explain to me how I’m projecting.
That’s not what your first comment said.
Your first comment said “at least half the population”, despite the fact that only about a third of this country actually voted Republican in any election in my lifetime.
Which is the initial thing I took issue with.
I typed a bunch more than this, but I’ve seen this kinda shit before.
You’re not arguing in good faith with me, and this discussion is deep in an r/politics thread, so no one’s benefiting.
You wanna see projecting?
I won’t argue with you about gerrymandering or voting systems because I know you “know” more power to the voter is a bad thing, and from your perspective, the GOP spending 60% of its 2020 budget for my state (in a year where small businesses were dropping like flies) on trying and failing to repeal ranked choice voting is a noble endeavor.
I know you would present my position in a similarly unreasonable sounding way.
Your research statistics will look different coming from your sources than they do from my sources, and neither of us will acknowledge each other’s sources as anything other than fake news.
So imma just walk away now.
Are you saying I’m delusional if I don’t believe the party that hasn’t gotten a new president in via popular vote in over 30 years represents “at least half” of the population?
You’re projecting because you want to claim I’m wrong for saying that at least half the voters out there are voting republican, that somehow republicans are winning some other way.
So maybe it’s your reality that’s skewed.
Complain all you want about differences in political ideologies and agendas but to claim an entire political establishment that represents at least half of the population wants journalists dead is not only inaccurate, it’s inflammatory.
A very loud minority that calls journalists enemy of the people is not half the population nor inaccurate to blame republicans for the aftermath of their rhetoric.
The only thing inflammatory is the ignorance not to see the connection between the shit republicans say and the violent actions their domestic terrorist base act out.