This is what gets me.
McCarthy and the Republicans are demanding that Biden agree to their demands or they'll blow up the economy.
Only they haven't decided what their demands are just yet and don't really feel like coming up with some.
Instead, they want Biden and the Democrats to start cutting programs until the House Republicans declare it good enough.
How about: Biden does not legislate at all, so House Republicans can make all the cuts they want to.
Biden can only sign or veto, unless McCarthy gives him line item authority.
Isn't that sweet of him It's the usual Republican deal: they'll increase military spending off-budget, direct-to-deficit as a jobs program and no questions asked money dump into the moocher States, along with tax reductions for the rich.
And in return Democrats can cut Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and end Obamacare.
What a nice compromise.
There is no compromise.
The debt is over money we've already spent, now the bill has to be paid.
That's it.
You don't get to negotiate, you pay your bill.
You have to pay what you owe, yes.
That doesn't imply that the debt ceiling must increase.
It implies that some discretionary programs may go unfunded or under-funded because the money allotted to them in the budget is needed to pay other higher-priority obligations.
It is the President's job as Chief Executive to take into account not only whether spending on some program has been approved but also whether the government can afford the expense.
Paying debts already incurred should always have first priority, short of an existential threat.
However, this intolerance for default is not an excuse to keep spending and incurring new debt which will inevitably cause the debt ceiling to be exceeded.
In actual fact the debt ceiling was exceeded the moment the government committed to make those payments without having the income to cover them—not when the bills came due.
There shouldn't be any question about the government paying its debts, but that is no excuse to keep spending money knowing that doing so will cause the debt ceiling to be exceeded.
Pay prior obligations first, borrow up to (but not exceeding) the debt ceiling if necessary, and then divide the available resources among the various programs up to the authorized limits.
Accept that this means some discretionary programs may not be fully funded if more money was authorized for them than is actually available after debt service and basic essentials are accounted for.