It's still creepy but the supreme court ruled back in the 50s that students can't be forced to do it.
Yes, but the key sticking points is that the student must pledge support to The Party.
And that their guarantor is forbidden from leaving China until they finish their education and return home.
The article clearly says the sponsor of the student, like family, become unable to leave China while they are abroad and become liable for their misbehaviour or disloyalty.
This is classic dictatorship stuff, US certaintly does not do this.
Not sure why you are defending China.
Not returning to China when urged?
We'll throw your parents into prison for speaking out against the government.
Don't care about your parents?
That's fine, neither do we.
We'll keep your parents in prison and wrangle up your cousins, uncles, and aunts and do the same.
Don't care about them, either?
Then we'll start hunting down your old friends and colleagues from before you left and add them into the mix.
Seems like a lot of people that you've known while growing up have suddenly started talking bad about the Chinese government.
How much are you willing to bear the responsibility for?
How much will others suffer until you cave to the demands?
How many of your loved ones will be in a cold and moldy prison cell begging for you to come home and cursing your name every day that you've abandoned them?
They may not be able to legally compel someone, but they can make the lives of any family still living in mainland China a living hell.
It's not about physically coercing them onto the plane.
It's about insinuating all the terrible things that will happen to mom and dad if they don't do as they're told.
Do you think that these guys are all wearing Chinese uniforms and wearing signs stating "Chinese government agent"?
These guys aren't officially recognized government workers.
This is akin to espionage.
China isn't out there making formal announcements of what they're doing.
These "Chinese police" are disguised as college students, tourists, retail workers, etc.
If countries just start randomly kicking out Chinese people from their country without valid legal reasons, then they'll have to do with the moral outcry from China and the economic turmoil that comes with it.
Wasn't there a news piece sometime ago about China believing everyone in the world is Chinese and therefore their laws affect everyone in the world?
I vaguely remember that but I can't find it when I Google it.