U aren’t getting it.
India isn’t saying only others must reduce.
India is saying all countries must reduce all types of fossil fuels and that applies to India itself.
AND YET India has the is pushing for other countries to elimate the use of fossil fuels.
What gives with that?
So what it's sounds like your saying is developing countries like India can demand more money from developed countries for 'climate-related' damage and that those developed countries should eliminate their use of all fossil fuels while India and other developing countries can use coal and have increased emmissions which contribute to climate change and cause climate-related events that cause damage worldwide in order to aid in their emerging economies?
But by continuing to increase their living standards they're pushing up the per-capita consumption, resulting in a population with a much bigger ecological impacts.
Emmissions (300% increase since '90) will increase with increased production and distribution of consumable goods.
A growing population will place increased demands on the 2/3 of the agrarian population (includes cows) [accounts for 76% of methane emmissions] and increased energy consumption (currently individual use is low) as the standard of living is improved.
Air transportation accounts for about 1% of emissions but 9 more airports are planned for development.
With only a slight dip in 2020(covid related) emmissions have been steadily increasing for the past several years and are projected to continue rising as more coal and gas/oil power plants are being built to meet the demands for energy.
If only coal is phased out, developing countries would need to construct gas/ petroleum based power plants till they have sufficient renewable infra to substitute, or go on massive infra spending on renewables right now.
So, if developed countries are really serious about phasing out fossil fuels, why not all fossil fuels, why should developing countries be forced to spend money right now while developed countries can sit around using their gas powered plants for longer period of time.