Sadly, the current Supreme Court would likely rule that no Founding Father ever wrote anything about puberty blockers so trans people don't have a right to exist.
It was a powerful lesson in just what dehumanization can do and it's made me look out for any dehumanization happening around me.
Once you dehumanize a group, you can do anything to them and I see that happening with trans people specifically and LGBTQ people in general.
It's very scary.
Oh, definitely.
We need to fight this at every level.
From local right up to national.
What scares me the most is that dehumanization that is being done towards trans people.
I'm not trans, but I am Jewish and I know my people's history.
Dehumanization was key to Nazi Germany's Holocaust.
"And by 'treating transgender families with more love and respect' we really mean preventing transgender individuals from getting needed care while demonizing them and claiming that they are trying to groom kids.
Only by making them fear for their lives will they know just how much we love them because we fear anything and anyone that's even slightly different.
".
It is.
Every single second, dysphoria is always in the back of my mind.
The times where I feel wholly content are extremely rare bursts of when someone goes above and beyond to affirm my gender and even still they do not last for more than a moment.
My body is like a prison to me that I cannot escape out of.
I came out at 14 and started hormones at 16 and even still I face so much damage that I will need to work so hard to undo.
And I am one of the extremely lucky ones.
Every day I reflect and am thankful that I was given the opportunity to transition, because not everybody is.
Every day, I count my lucky stars that people in my life have been accepting of me.
But that has not fully solved the deep and internal wrong that has been placed within the deepest depths of my body.
Only medically, and eventually surgically transitioning will reach the final step.
To any readers, don’t take these words of those as an ingrate.
I am overwhelmingly thankful that at least I’ve been placed in this position.
I just want to convey how important medical and surgical transition can be for people.
Life saving, in many cases.
This bill is disgusting to me, and I hope that some lawsuit can block it from affecting too many people.