While the claim that we're facing some sort of extinction because of a drop in sperm count is alarmist and absurd, I do feel like I have to point out that the only reason the world population is still rising is mainly because more people have access to better healthcare.
What you really want to look at instead is the number of total children in the world, and depending on which sources you look at that number is either very close to flat and stable, or we already hit the peak about a decade ago and it's actually decreasing now.
Of course, I'm not saying that it's specifically because of sperm count drop.
I think the reasons you've listed are almost certainly the primary drivers there; just stating it because pointing out that populations are still rising is kind of irrelevant to the point here.
Basically, you're right to be concerned about overpopulation, but to say that fewer people is entirely a good thing is false and an oversimplification of a very complex issue.
While I agree that overpopulation is indeed a bad thing, a sudden lowering of the birth rate can have severe economic impacts.
Take Japan, for example.
People are having fewer kids, and the economy is struggling as issues like having fewer people to buy things and even just finding enough workers to replace the older folk as they retire become more prevalent.
(There's more to the situation than that, but hopefully you get the general idea.
).
And, again.
World wide population is still going exponential.
Even if there _was_ some fertility drop, we should be thankful for that.
More increase chance of fertilization in a single encounter.
But in longer-term relationships it always tends towards 1, regardless of the number of sperms.
Sperm count is linked to fertility and sperm quality.
A count > 40 million/ml yields 65% fertility, and < 40 million barely 50%.
Added to this, the quality goes down.
Only about 15% of sperm are morphologically optimal to begin with, so as count goes down the probability of a "quality conception" also goes down.
The system is "designed" to work only one way, even if the raw number of sperm seems absurdly high in isolation.