And early voting results show that that record will be blown up by this years election based on early voting.
Republicans have made it harder for young people to vote, and young voters are STILL increasing percentage wise election by election.
Primaries, specifically Super Tuesday is not going to reflect general election turnout of youth for several reasons.
For starters, primaries and their lack of standardization, state registration deadlines, and various voting dates are challenging to political newcomers (youth).
They are disproportionately disadvantaged (this is actually a voter-suppression tactic we rail against the Right for).
The money isn't there to rock the vote in the same manner November is -- also isn't on the same scale.
Leave aside the fact that most college students are in the midst of midterms during this time in the Spring just the same.
That, and even youth can't compete with Bloomberg's half a billion dollar injection into Biden's campaign last round.
(By the way; the three most stressful times of an adult's life are: (1) University exams, (2) Having a kid, and (3) the Sandwich years of caring for their aging parents.
So don't downplay this.
We 100% know the gaslighting defeatism both sides apathy is propaganda from the right to the youth is much stronger because the youth often probably recognize their own lack of understanding of the issues and so hesitate to jump off the fence in either direction because Republicans do such a good job at muddying the waters, combined with the same voter-suppression techniques that occur for other minority groups.
Another problem is that we 100% know the gaslighting defeatism both sides apathy is propaganda from the right to the youth is much stronger because the youth often probably recognize their own lack of understanding of the issues and so hesitate to jump off the fence in either direction because Republicans do such a good job at muddying the waters, combined with the same voter-suppression techniques that occur for other minority groups.
Another problem is that we 100% know the gaslighting defeatism both sides apathy is propaganda from the right to the youth is much stronger because the youth often probably recognize their own lack of understanding of the issues and so hesitate to jump off the fence in either direction because Republicans do such a good job at muddying the waters, combined with the same voter-suppression techniques that occur for other minority groups.
Also it's sad because folks here make so many excuses for voter-suppression tactics against minority groups when the reality is that many of these same voter-suppression tactics apply to youth.
And it's sad because folks here make so many excuses for voter-suppression tactics against minority groups when the reality is that many of these same voter-suppression tactics apply to youth.
Which raises an important point: The pure vitriol shown towards youth in these comments but the simultaneously complaining of Republican voter-suppression tactics towards other voting groups of color is a hefty amount of cognitive dissonance.
Which raises an important point: The pure vitriol shown towards youth in these comments but the simultaneously complaining of Republican voter-suppression tactics towards other voting groups of color is a hefty amount of cognitive dissonance.
Which raises an important point: The pure vitriol shown towards youth in these comments but the simultaneously complaining of Republican voter-suppression tactics towards other voting groups of color is a hefty amount of cognitive dissonance.
I don't disagree, but find better ways to appeal to them by (a) explaining this importance (beginning with the parents), (b) running candidates they're interested in (rise in Voter participation from this group under Obama, Sanders), (c) countering the actions of right-wing propagandists to sow defeatism and apathy (gaslighting).