It’s scary.
Men there are having heart attacks and dying at age 35.
Women are generally supposed to stop working at age 25 get married and have kids 🙄🙄🙄.
Don't expect women to drop from their jobs to SAHM, or only a part-time job, even when they are the main breadwinner for the family and/or love their careers.
Therefore, one of the reason Japanese women aren't getting married/having kids is that they don't want to lose the careers that they worked hard for.
All in all, trying to have and raise children in Japan, as a woman, is stressful and time expensive.
And until Japan really cracks down on work culture to encourage families to actually be a family, and stops with whatever the fuck is wrong with their medical system, it's always going to continue to be an issue.
I'm lucky that I have relatives that live nearby who can help out when I need it, and are retired and thus don't have time constraints like others (and are active enough to take care of a child when I need a helping hand), but that's outside the norm.
It's a shitshow for most of the country.
And then during the required five day stay the nurses continuously put diapers a size too small on my baby, making the baby cry and scream with every diaper change and now they have a rash around their abdomen from it (the nurses kept insisting that the diapers were newborn diapers, and thus for all newborns, without listening to me when I pointed out that my baby was bigger than the other babies and needed bigger diapers), I was constantly shamed for breastfeeding (I was told repeatedly by doctors and nursing staff that it's not possible to have a healthy baby if a mother only breastfeeds, and that formula is necessary for a healthy baby.
There's nothing wrong with my milk supply, I'm pumping and measuring now to make sure, and baby was up to their birth weight in seven days with just breastfeeding, but the medical staff all pushed that the other mothers were all formula feeding, and that me breastfeeding was bad for my baby.
And they send me home with a full bag of formula samples and 'literature'.
With added excuses like 'baby can't get calcium from breastmilk' and 'it will be inconvenient if you want to sleep'), and I was told it was 'strange' that I wanted to keep my baby with me while I was in the hospital instead of just putting the baby in the nursery and 'enjoying a relaxing stay'.
It's like medical staff treat mothers as a byproduct to making the baby, and were confused as to why I wanted to hold and have a relationship with my baby.
On the plus side, though, he has stepped up and started doing a lot of the household chores instead.
So vacuuming, dusting, dishes, cleaning, shopping, etc are things he's doing while I'm caring for the new baby.
I just kinda wish he wasn't kind of washing his hands of caring for the baby.
Hopefully he'll take on a lot more with the baby when the baby actually starts interacting with the world.