211/435 races have been called for the Republicans, compared to 199/435 for Democrats.
The magic number to control the House is 218 (435/2=217.5, so 218 is a majority) and Republicans lead in the votes for 10/25 uncalled races.
This would put them at 221-214, a narrow majority.
Democrats would need 4 of those remaining races to break for them in the final few ballots without losing their lead in any one of their current 15 leads to hold their majority.
It's not impossible, but it is unlikely that it happens.
Boehner had a much, much larger majority than what the projected Republican majority will be.
There are moderate Republicans, even if the mainline party is entrenched, and everyone in the House is up for re-election in 2 years.
Regardless, whoever the Republicans (or Democrats) would elect as Speaker of the House is going to have to contend with the need to reach across the aisle for votes or placate the extreme fringes of their party.
If the Lord of Hamberders continues to drive a wedge between the Republican base, things could get difficult for a Republican majority leader.
If anything, the republicans will probably want him to go away at this stage so he won’t have a chance to rip the party apart when he inevitably loses the primaries to DeSantis.
McCarthy will have to pull a real rabbit out of his ass to conjure up a majority in favour of protecting Trump.
I just don’t think trump has enough political capital remaining after these elections.
They have a real chance at making him go away, and if they don’t, they run a real risk of him ripping up the GOP.
This is why I keep telling people, the GOP can't just shake him off and cleanly walk away.
The guy is certifiable.
He actually believes he's still the president.
His lawyers are doing this to humor him, because he freaks the hell out if anyone in his circle tries to tell him he isn't.
The guy is not going away and is not going to bend to deathsanta.
He'll nuke the entire party to ashes before conceding defeat or being treated as no longer relevant.
And he still has a decent portion of the GOP's voter base who are so deep in sunk cost fallacy that they aren't going to willingly unlatch.