Metals and glass, absolutely.
Plastics, no that’s a lie sold by years of oil and plastic marketing to make their industry seem sustainable when it’s not.
But several decades ago, Americans used most things in reusable containers.
When discardable plastics were introduced, Americans were still holding onto and reusing them at first.
So companies actually put out ad campaigns teaching them to be wasteful so they could sell more plastics.
Yeah plastic is definitely an important material, but single use plastic is a huge problem, and I’d love see it become absolutely recycled.
I’m an advocate of bottle bills because they successfully hold the biggest plastic polluting companies like Coca-Cola, PepsiCo , nestle, and unilever accountable for the waste they create and force conditions where the plastic that can be recycled but isn’t because of market conditions will actually be recycled.
Like you said, it’s not worth it from a business perspective right now.
But these companies have lobbied hard for decades against these and have pushed the idea that individual responsibility will solve it when really it’s a systematic problem.
It’s just a fault of capitalism where there is more money to be made from selling discardable plastic than reusing it or another more easily recycled material, and so discardable plastic has currently won out.
Post industrial plastics (taken from unsold cars, scrapped parts or inventory, etc) is where this assertion breaks down somewhat, and are much easier to re-use / have been being re-used for some time.
Recent developments in the fields of recycling, as well as increased market demand, are making recycling a very attractive option to plastic manufacturers.
Eventually, government regulation and the market forces that be are likely to dictate some sort of closed-loop material feed streams, where parts are recovered and sold back to plastic manufacturers, who can then use these burgeoning technologies to recycle plastics at a macro-molecular level.
For the most part, the reason why plastics weren’t recycled is because there was very little market demand; and often plastics are intended to have a very specific set of properties that can’t be easily achieved with recycled feedstock.
Plastics intended to be food safe, medical device compliant, biocompatible, etc.
are nearly impossible to recycle because of these standards, and make up a large portion of the plastic people throw away.