If it makes you feel better, I get the impression that the couple in the video are traveling vloggers.
Czech Republic is actually among the countries on the very high human development index with a good GDP per capita.
(Your point stands of course, it's an exploitative practice.
).
That's only some of them though.
Some are refugees with no family to send money back too and they're paid a shit wage for US standards while trying to live in the US.
I will say some of the workers (I've worked with them) are okay with the pay because they send it home where the currency conversion rate actually means they're making a good wage for their family.
A kitchen worker at the restaurant I was working at was able to send his kid to a private school despite the wage being barely enough to live on in the US.
It's why some of them endure horrid living conditions too.
If they spent their small wage trying to live in the US normally (like with an apartment and car) they wouldn't be able to send enough back to their families.
People in general and especially those with children, are unlikely to live in a shitty caravan 15 minutes from their house in order to earn rubbish wages.
Migrant workers are mostly how they're going to have to fulfil these positions, unless they become at least a bit more flexible on their own requirements.
Anecdotally, if you go to one of these farms looking for work, they require you to live on-site even if you live locally.
The on-site accommodation could be a rotting caravan and the pay is pretty shit.
Whenever the topic comes up in the UK, whoever's talking makes it seem like traditional farming as it currently exists in Britain doesn't really have a future.
I imagine the situation might be similar in Germany.
I wouldn't wish the cicumstances on migrant workers and if I was out of a job, it'd surely be the last place I'd go looking.
Not sure where in America you live, but I hardly ever hear anyone bitch about legal migrant workers like that.
That said, I don't live somewhere with a massive influx.