I'm going to see from the perspective of families going through a winter without heat and light.
I would be disgusted with my own government if they were buying oil from Russia while the rest of the world tried to choke off the Russian oil market.
Lastly, for this question you seem to hang your hat on - maybe for India, there is no country that is more morally-defensible than Russia.
So do what you feel is the right thing to do.
/shrug There is no country that is completely blameless on all accounts with a perfect track record and a history without blemish.
Before you get too far down the rabbit hole comparing civilian casualties in conflicts, do a little research on US military rules of engagement.
Then compare that to what you see happening in Ukraine.
Then, consider that there has never been a conflict without civilian casualties, there never will be, and keep in mind the stark difference between Iraq and Ukraine - Iraq was 100% avoidable.
All Sadaam needed to do was cooperate with UN inspectors.
It's that simple.
All that suffering never needed to happen.
In Ukraine, they have been invaded without provocation.
bonus: and consider why Europe kept buying more from Russia after it invaded the Crimea region of Ukraine.
India isn't anyone's ally – they have refused to make Quad an anti-China military alliance, they refused to join any Soviet partnership in the Cold War.
They've literally made that clear from the get-go by being a founding member of the non-aligned movement (NMA).
As for morals, it did not cheer-lead or support the US as it brutally, illegally, and immorally invaded and butchered Iraq (10,000 civilians killed in the bombardment and invasion phase, not counting the insurgency phase after), it does not cheer-lead or support Russia as it brutally, illegally, and immorally invades and butchers Ukraine (6,700 civilian deaths so far already).
But it kept doing business with the US and Russia through both their invasions and occupations.
Seems fair or not?
Go ahead then: name the oil exporting countries from which India could buy other than Russia.
And consider whether it would be morally bankrupt to buy from them.