It is far too small to realistically hold against any ground invasion China would make if they can secure the waters and make a proper landing, we aren't talking Ukraine here (even assuming Chinese incompetence matching Russian when we don't have cause to assume it's that bad at this time), and Taiwanese forces too small without backup.
IF everything goes right and no one notices China moving its civilian ferries from a thousand miles away to concentrate on the coast opposite of Taiwan AND they get a good first strike off THEN that sort of situation might be possible.
But China hasn't actually tried anything like this before.
They're not going to execute perfectly the first try.
Things will get messy and embarrassing before it escalates to total war.
Our ICBMs are had hundreds of bases in dozens of countries.
There's zero chance that a sneak attack gets all of them.
Bomber and nuclear subs also have protocols for a first strike that decapitates the government.
And that's not even covering the independent nuclear arsenals in the UK and France, which are NATO members.
It's important to note that the Chinese haven't fought a real war in more than a generation.
They'll make mistakes.
We'll make mistakes, but we're far more familiar with fighting and have much better equipment and training than they do.
They might have been planning for years, but just look at how their Zero Covid Policy went.
Their government is riddled with yesmen and corruption to the point where it compromises their ability to achieve goals, just look at how rotted from the inside out the Russian army was.
Is China similarly rotted?
Who knows.
But the simulations assume that they're equal to the US in terms of planning and execution.
Any conflict with China over Taiwan would be exceptionally challenging, but China is vastly underestimating how hard the invasion would be given how long Taiwan has been preparing for it.
The problem is further complicated by the fact that Taiwan maintains a claim over all the territory of modern China, which is obviously unacceptable.
This claim is no longer serious, but they are concerned that officially ending that would be seen by China as a disruption of the status quo and step towards official independence, prompting them to attack.