If these allegations are true then he's definitely a liability to Lula's government, especially since they've just voted out a party whose supporters were calling for a military coup.
The army should not be interfering with police and other domestic operations, period.
A better way to think of the Military Police is militarized police, in that they are organized (as you said) and equipped more like a military, but still function as a domestic peace-keeping police force.
Military Police are somewhat similar to the National Guard in the US, in that they report to the State Governor (but in the US they can also be nationalized and fall under the command of the Federal Army).
The protection of the other two buildings is under the responsibility of the Military Police - do not confuse this with MPs in the US army for example, they are called Military police because they are structured as a military force, but are not part of the army, and are under the command of state governors.
In the case of the Federal District MPs, they are under the command of the governor of the Federal District, who happens to be a Bolsonaro Supporter, he had as his security secretary - in charge of the security of the state - the former minister of justice from Bolsonaro, who was notorious for turning a blind eye towards right wing terrorists.
This guy is currently in jail pending the investigation against him for his actions and lack of actions during and prior to January 8th.
Considering how mutinous the army was prior and during the attack, giving any kind of order to the army to "re-estabilish the peace in the capital" may have cemented the coup.
Seriously when the military police - do not confuse them with MPs in the american army for example, they are not equivalent- when the Military Police was chasing the terrorists away from the buildings, the army in their HQ - where a large group of terrorists had setup camp just outside their HQ - put out tanks on the streets blocking access to the camp, and preventing the military police from arresting the terrorists that had fled to the camp.
There are three buildings that were attacked in January 8th in the capital of Brazil.
The Congress, the supreme court building, and the Presidential "palace".
Of those 3 buildings, the army technically is only supposed to protect one of them.
The Presidential Palace, that is \in theory\ under the protection of the Presidential Guards Batallion.
I say in theory because as you mentioned they failed to protect the Presidential Palace during the attack, in fact in the night prior to the attack the sentries of the Presidential Guards Batallion tasked with keeping an eye on the building were mysteriously removed from their posts.