Also this, again, is all a hypothetical as Israel and Iran frequently threaten each other with war, strikes or destruction.
Israel does not threaten unprovoked destruction of /war with Iran.
They have said they will strike Iran’s nuke sites if needed to keep Iran from following through on its basically daily threats to outright destroy Israel.
Israel has no beef with Iran other than Iran’s constant threatening to destroy Israel and Iran’s support of groups that are engaged in terrorism against Israel in Lebanon, and within Israel itself.
If those threats from Iran were to stop, Israel would just ignore Iran.
Israel is far from perfect, but they won't initiate a nuclear conflict.
If the regime in Iran feels threatened, they plausibly would.
Iran has very rational reasons to fear a US invasion.
Prominent US politicians regularly threaten to bomb them, the US shot down a civilian Iranian airliner, assassinated one of their generals, and invaded their neighbor without provocation based on false pretenses.
At most I think they would get the US enforcing a no fly zone for them, air/missile strikes on Iranian military targets, and intelligence/logistical supply.
It would make no sense for Iran to use a nuke on a US carrier when swarms of conventional weapons are far cheaper to develop and far more difficult to counter than a single nuclear missile.
Because the US has a poor record of launching preemptive wars to prevent weapons of mass destruction, and Iran has far more to fear from the US than the US has to fear from Iran.
I doubt anyone would join them in a war on Iran other than the US and I'm even more doubtful that the US would have boots on the ground.
No one is saying we should give Iran nuclear weapons, that's a straw man argument.
And yes I think everyone agrees that the number of nations with nukes should be limited, but how you go about doing that is the crux of the argument.
Are you advocating for preemptive attacks to limit the development of nukes?
Or do you think we should go back to something like the JCPOA?