Maternal and infant mortality rates as well!
There seems to be a correlation, the more “pro-life” a state is, the higher infant and maternal mortality rates are.
The links you provided does show data of both infant and mother mortality rates by states.
It seems that this website infers regarding mother mortality rates, liberal states have more social programs to tackle specific root causes while Arkansas and other southern (I guess if you consider the region rather than conservative) have mothers with higher obesity rates that can result in pregnancy complications.
I do not disagree with this data, but the inference is a plausible argument.
California with 39,000,000 people and Louisiana having 4,590,000, the maternal mortality rate (both the lowest and highest rates respectively) of 4.00 per 100k California and 58.1 per 100k yields approximately 1,560 deaths in California and 2,667 in Louisiana.
From the abortion by states website, assuming Louisiana eliminates all abortions (of which they had 7,360 abortions), I calculated that using the 58.1 per 100k model that this may result in 4.27 deaths of those 7,360 pregnancies, but a net increase in the population.
I propose that if we look at the state-by-state abortion statistic form 2020, and presume that states that ban abortion will reduce future numbers to zero.
While some affluent people can and will travel to neighboring states to undergo the procedure, I still think that a statistically significant amount will be unfortunately carry to term, thereby increasing the population.
With the trend of net domestic migration, of which Florida and Texas are the top two in terms of number of people, I still believe that (based on how the U.S. House of Representatives allocates membership), there will be more representation in Congress to Republican states when extrapolating in current census data.
On the second link regarding infant mortality rates by states, I viewed the different years in the filters and did find that recent years (like 2019 and 2020) have higher death rates in many states, while the majority of the years appear to have the Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi region with the highest rates.
There is no claim made by this .gov website, which leads me to think that (from the first website's inference) obesity rates may be statistically significant in both cases.