The bill removes assistance to the school for civil rights assurances, replacing it with a smaller assurance of non-segregation [1].
It’s actually pretty damn wild to see all those deletions of “civil rights” replaced with desegregation and non-discrimination.
The question at hand is a significantly larger one than that unless you believe it’s alright for Asian American civil rights to be legally taken away or for Asian American businesses to lose protections.
It seems super weird that people purporting to be advocating for Asian Americans are saying those things aren’t relevant to the discussion.
comment we should first discuss the premise that "[affirmative action] appears to be bad for Asians."
Not only because the claim itself merits careful analysis, but because this sort of claim tends to be part of a particular manner of framing the discourse surrounding affirmative action and institutional discrimination, in order to legitimize concerns about White people being institutionally discriminated against in the same manner as racialized minorities are.
> Both scholars are clear that affirmative action—a policy designed with the purpose of including members of certain nonwhite racial groups, often African Americans and Latinos but also sometimes Asian Americans—differs from racial discrim­ination against Asian American applicants on the basis of race.
The work of Matsuda and Kang provides the conceptual framework for understanding why efforts to end racial affirmative action are unlikely to expose or end anti-Asian purposeful bias, anti-Asian effect discrimination, or policies and practices that place discriminatory ceilings on Asian American admissions.
Speculating that ending affirmative action will not end anti-Asian bias in other areas does nothing to show that affirmative action doesn't hurt Asians.
Ok but we actually have data on affirmative action hurting Asians.
If Harvard didn't consider affirmative action, the share of Asians would go from 24% to 43%.
Also, when California and Michigan banned affirmative action, the share of Asians at the University of Michigan and University of California schools increased significantly.
We do have data showing that Asian admissions increased after California and Michigan got rid of affirmative action.
Were those increases in Asian admissions a random coincidence?