Most of the electricity has to be routed to the flash bulbs that power the lasers.
It is supply and demand.
Higher electricity demand makes electricity prices go up.
They can make a lot more money selling expensive generators.
The fusion plant draws electricity back in in order to create the next pulse of energy.
All that copper and iron in the generators is a huge piece of hardware.
Plus you need to manufacture all the lasers.
That's just the problem with the lasers being 25 years old and inefficient.
They're the most powerful we have, but we have much more advanced laser tech now.
And it's a huge deal that the energy output from the laser energy itself is a net gain; so now we need a more efficient grid, a more efficient laser system, to make it continuous, etc.
But since we've proven fusion WORKS we can pursue alternative, cheaper, scalable ways of making it SCALABLE.
I would love it if fusion power was an economically viable alternative.
Fusion reasearch over the last 70 years, including this experiment, has not provided evidence that that is the case.
PhD student here.
I completely agree with this.
Fusion power is an exciting idea, but the technical obstacles are not trivial.
It's not obvious that there is an engineering solution for reactor-confined fusion that makes it economically viable.
If there is a solution, it seems like we still lack the technological/engineering capacities to make it work after many decades of hype.
I'm still extremely skeptical.
Just because a fusion reaction creates more energy than was put into it for several seconds does not mean we are anywhere close to achieving commercially viable fusion.
If you account for all of the resources that go into a facility like the NIF, the ratio of energy gain to energy expenditure is at least 1:1000.
At present, fusion energy isn't being harnessed to compensate for the power input.
Nuclear Fusion is the future of energy generation - if it can be achieved.
Ultimately, it's generating more output energy than input.
And the results of this unconfirmed test show a very small energy gain.