-Wagenknecht has called for the dissolution of NATO and for a new security agreement that links Germany and Russia.
Throughout her career, Wagenknecht has argued in favor of a closer relationship with Russia; in 1992, she penned an essay praising Stalinist Russia.
>Throughout her career, Wagenknecht has argued in favor of a closer relationship with Russia; in 1992, she penned an essay praising Stalinist Russia, a view she said in 2017 she no longer espoused.
In the lead-up to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022, Wagenknecht was a prominent defender of Russia and its President Vladimir Putin, arguing on February 20, 2022 that while the United States was trying to "conjure up" an invasion of Ukraine, “Russia has in fact no interest to march into Ukraine.” After Russia launched a large-scale invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, Wagenknecht admitted that her judgment had been wrong.
-In the lead-up to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022, Wagenknecht was a prominent defender of Russia and its President Vladimir Putin, arguing on February 20, 2022 that while the United States was trying to "conjure up" an invasion of Ukraine, "“Russia has in fact no interest to march into Ukraine.”.
It sure is funny how the people who tried to claim Russia had no intention of invading Ukraine and that it was US fear-mongering propaganda still defend Russia anyways.
A normal person would react and say “wow, I was wrong about Russia.
They were the bad guys after all.” Turns out, they never gave a shit whether Russia was going to invade or not.
Giving Russia what it wants, turning a blind eye, is what got us into this.
It encourages more war, more repression and will get more innocent civilians violated, tortured and/or murdered.
Yet this is what these "pacifists" demand.
Russia may not be appeased any longer, and the responsibility for a peaceful end lies squarely with them.
Meanwhile, in Syria, they besieged and bombed Aleppo to the ground with blatant disregard for the civilians living there, as they later would also do in many Ukrainian cities and as they had done previously in Chechnya.
Ukraine stopped seeking peaceful negotiations after it became clear what Russian soldiers had done in Bucha, and rightfully so.