Europe accuses = "top EU officials" and not a single one is named and "top EU officials" could literally be 2 dudes from a single EU country.
I don't get it?
The U.S.A. doesn't own it's own gas resources.
They are owned by private/public companies.
We are paying the higher prices... all of us in the world are paying higher prices.
Of course the US will sell more energy and at higher prices.
Russia was effectively sanctioned out of market.
Less supply means higher prices, and US along with other countries are filling in the gaps left by Russia.
The US is profiting from that but so what?
US didn’t create this circumstance, Putin did.
Us benefiting from a circumstance we didn’t create isn’t a bad thing.
As for weapons, good god man.
We are selling weapons to Ukraine, or gifting our old weapons.
Why is that a bad thing?
Yes we are profiting off that but so what?
We didn’t create this situation and isn’t not as if we are selling to both sides.
We are selling to exactly one side and our economy is getting a small boost.
That’s not a bad thing.
I did not say if its bad or good.
Those are the drivers what the politcians are thinking when they do their decisions.
In large scale war it is always profitable for some.
It is like junk clothes industry the things that breaks needs to be replaced or repaired and it costs labour and money which again adds revenue and so on.
That is how it works.
And maybe its better that way so there is no reason to cry all the taxpayer money which have been given to support to win the war.
I guess the war industry really is thankfully supporting everything in this war.
All the books are full of orders for many years.
After covid there was so much soft money hanging around in the markets that some how its going somewhere.
And surely the countries that are able to collect the taxes from the companies who are making money because of tensions in overall European continent are really willing to support to win the war.
Also because of all of the covid and war and green energy demands there is a lot opportunists claims why to rise prices.
Its like a global industry rave party which keeps going on without ending.
And most of the people and countries suffer if the money doesn't come back in the cycle fast.