Breaking bad was out for how many years and I started watching it only a year ago.
Spoilers still affect those picking up old shows.
Spoiling the first season is still bad, cus what he said is pretty much the most important plot twist in the whole show.
Imagine someone told someone in this thread to start watching the good place, and then they find that comment.
It’s not a big issue of course, but it’s very much annoying to be on the receiving end of spoilers and it’s best to avoid putting stuff like this outside the expected context (by expected context I mean somewhere like the subreddit or YouTube good place video comment section) so we don’t accidentally ruin someone’s day.
Whenever is fine, wherever is not fine.
I just don’t think it’s fair for someone to get spoiled from a politics comment section.
It’s not a bad opinion to have and I stand by it.
That’s an opinion.
That’s an opinion that directly contradicts the Constitution, which has specific language to say that your line of argument is not allowed: The 9A says that just because a right is unenumerated, it shall not be construed to deny or disparage other rights retained by the people.
By the 9A we are legally protected in retaining all our human rights.
Including the right to our personal information.
But fiduciaries aren’t protected by the Constitution in the same way and it will probably be argued in court that without an amendment, it is an illegal barrier to candidacy.
You're right that the courts would strike down attempts to add additional eligibility conditions or prerequisites for running for office (beyond ballot access procedures) that aren't already in the constitution.
But this isn't that.
The constitution doesn't talk about tax record confidentiality at all.
It's not in there.
It's a pure statutory creation, and there are already several cases where the IRS must disclose a tax return by law.
Candidates can't veto legally authorized disclosure of a return by a tax agency any more than they can be forced to disclose it themselves.
Doing this would avoid the First Amendment issues with requiring the candidates to take the speech action of disclosing their returns.
The confidentiality of tax returns is merely statutory, not constitutional if it doesn't compel the candidate to do the disclosure themselves.
As we saw from what just happened to Trump's returns, exceptions to tax return confidentiality already exist, and the exceptions used in his case are not the only ones.
This would be another worthwhile exception.