I understand what you're saying, but given the task at hand to drastically cut back global emissions when we're already so far gone; people get stressed.
The population is rapidly expanding, environmental catastrophes are always in headlines, it's natural for the majority to feel pessimistic.
It doesn't mean that we do nothing.
But it's understandable to feel like it's already too late.
Sure, emissions can be reduced by countries globally.
But what happens when other countries don't get on board?
What happens when climate change becomes self sustaining?
What happens when the masses don't want to conform to an alternate lifestyle to reduce emissions, or when the cost of living in a more environmentally friendly country is just too high?
I want to reduce the effects of climate change as much as anyone, though I fear its already too late.
In 2021 the rainforest was emitting more CO2 than it was clearing; and that's coming from the lungs of the earth.
With methane in permafrost being released on top of all global emissions and mass wildfires; its just not going to make that much of a difference.
Changing that much infrastructure and optimizing EVs to handle Canadian winters just doesn't seem feasible for their time frame.
And even if so, as I said.
I fear it's already much too late to make a drastic impact.
Here's some overviews of emissions in Canada.
And while transportation is still the second largest source of emissions; the largest is still from stationary combustion sources.
45% of emissions from 2020 were from the energy sector.
There's much more we could be focusing on than EVs.
Until all new vehicles sold need to be EVs.
That's ages.
People have a decade to buy fossil fuel cars before then, it'll be decades more before they're gone.
About 5-10 years ago i heard that we were going to phase out gasoline cars by 2025 (i think) here in Norway.
So its a transfer period to 2035 until all vehicles need to be EVs.To be honest, sounds delusional considering the climate and how huge canada is.
I feel like Infrastructure and battery technology for colder climates is just not there yet to make these sort of laws.