We get student loan forgiveness or start shopping for lawyers to sue because we didn't get PPP loan forgiveness money.
And that's only the beginning.
Didn't get forgiveness because you're not a teacher?
You have standing.
Didn't get a tax break because you're single?
You have standing.
Didn't draw a social security check because you're in your 30s?
You wouldn't believe it, you have standing!
You’d be surprised.
I pay less than 15% of my income in taxes despite making over $400k a year.
As an independent contractor virtually everything I purchase is a write off in one for or another.
I even stay in AirBNB’s and hotels instead of my own place.
I take my money very seriously.
I’m not charitable at all.
If other people have to fund your endeavors then they should be able to decide what endeavors you can embark on.
I see what you are saying.
This is precisely what they don’t deserve student debt relief.
They took tax payer money for a loan and then want tax payers to also pay for the loan a second time.
You’ll have to forgive my earlier responses I’m juggling 3 different projects at once while bullshitting on Reddit.
Nice try but you’re wrong.
The solar industry is subsidized while the fossil fuel sector is being heavily taxed.
It’s a ploy to force people into adopting renewable energy.
The taxes on coal, natural gas, gasoline and oil will increase meaning services run on those fuels will become more expensive.
Electricity, gasoline and food.
This is why so many farmers are adopting solar.
Renewable energy decreases expenses and gives people more money to put into the economy.
Economics however aren’t college kids strong points.
How can you expect people who don’t have the skills to generate money to understand how money works?
Studen debt relief won’t pass so no I won’t be paying for it.
I’m not even a fan of the little I do pay in taxes being used for welfare or public education.
Too many people looking for handouts so they can justify their continuance in bad decision making.
If someone is dumb enough to go into lifelong debt to get their name on a piece of paper then they deserve their circumstances.
Stupid choices yield poor results.