A democratic door to door rep came to my rural door this year, frazzled and fearing for her life because of her previous stops.
In case you’re wondering HOW we’re doing here in rural america.
I grew up in Rural America.
My Mom's side of the family is Arkansas hollow people.
It is going to be extremely difficult if not damn near impossible to pull these people away from the Republican party.
Deep rural people have become clanish, hostile to outsiders, hostile to authority, deeply closed minded, and profoundly ignorant of current societal and cultural norms.
Conservatism for these people is more of a personality trait than a political ideology.
The only way they would ever turn on Republicans is if they started cutting their welfare and social security checks.
Which Republicans absolutely want to do.
This would be the only way to finally convince them that Republicans were the problem all along.
Because it is ruled by Republicans.
Why would you want the same policies leaving rural America behind spread to urban America too?
If rural America is tired of getting left behind it needs to stop voting for the same Republicans actively leaving it behind.
Now, those "California conservatives" moving out to the real rural America are finding that they aren't always as welcome as they thought they would be.
California conservatives have to be extra extreme, as if to make up for the state that they live in, but they end up being seen as extreme or simply as an outsider (despite large parts of California being pretty much the same rural that you'd get in places like the dakotas or elsewhere).
In the town that we are building business 2 in our historically very red politics has shifted as several Republican candidates were completely shut out by communities electing democrats.
It's not all at once, but a combination of aging, migrating, and shifting of politics is shifting the landscape.
People moving from HCOL progressive areas to less expensive places are taking their politics with them.
This goes for left as well as right leaning people.