Right now solar is providing savings of over 70 billion worldwide and as it grows every year it will soon encourage the closure of some fossil fuel electricity generating plants.
And remember this is only solar there are also huge saving with wind and other clean energy sources saving just as much if not even ore than solar as there has been a massive investment in them.
I Personally believe there will always be gas powered and oil powered power plants around the world as top up or backup power sources, but as solar and other systems spread more and more fossil fuels plants are becoming obsolete.
Yes oil or gas power the electric generating power stations but every year more and more clean energy sources are being built and producing right now about 30% of America's electricity consumption from green energy alone,and that is growing faster every year.
There are a few countries that have been installing solar panels on all new builds and they are reaping the benefits of electricity generated in crazy high amounts that will eventually provide enough energy to shutter some fossil fuel energy sources.
I did a rough estimate off £6000 for solar panels and about £25 000 for batteries , cost is flexible as i am sure that the Uk could if they used a little common sense start manufacturing solar panels and batteries creating even more jobs and helping the economy to grow.
while keeping prices down.
Ah, costs are lower than you researched.
Amazon things are highly overpriced.
The 700w panel differs from the 500w panel by ... being 1.4x bigger area.
Those £250 kits are "flexible".
They die much faster and are less efficient per area, and more expensive per area.
I have one as a toy here.
Being less efficient means that with your limited area at home you can't really get enough kWh to make a difference.
Also double-check that £250 kit's specs, I've seen it, they added an extra 0 "by mistake".
It's full of scams.
It's full of scams around solar, beware!
From those £40k that you quoted, 90% is wasted.
Also, you can gradually expand capacity/capability.