jfc, people are so stupid.
Both countries are spying on each other.
And you think a fucking balloon is the linchpin?
Those balloons are almost certainly part of .
made it clear the US was considering the possibility that these encounters were part of a foreign adversary system deployed by China, so you have plenty of reason to assume the US knew a lot more about this a lot sooner than they let you know about it.
This is trashy.
At least with the U2 incident America got caught by surprise by Russia being able to shoot the state of the art plane down with an air defense system that America underestimated.
That was much more sophisticated than just hoping Russia wouldn't notice an otherwise defenseless aircraft.
China has no reason to think balloons were going to continue flying over America with impunity or continue to do so after the US made it clear it was noticing and investigating their presence, and they have no excuse being this caught off guard when the shoe finally dropped.
More importantly, so did China.
China was aware of its own surveillance network when the US started loudly announcing to the world that they were aware of, and investigating, the presence of UAPs in American airspace.
They have no reason to assume they were going to get away with it for much longer and they have no excuse being so flat footed the moment when (not if) the US reveals they know about the balloons and what they do.
Apparently, they've been doing it for years and might have gotten away with it for much longer if the most famous of the balloons hadn't flown low enough to be spotted by, well, everybody.
They couldn't down it in a controlled fashion.
It was a very large object 60,000+ feet in the air and could have potentially killed people on the ground by crashing on them.
After you shoot the balloon, it's an uncontrolled hunk of metal dropping out of the sky at 60,000+ feet.
It was a jet-size object under a building-sized balloon being shot at with an AA missile.
There were no guarantees about crash safety.