I mean COVID hit it pretty hard, and while Cuba remains a tourist destination for many people, it’s not enough to support the entire economy and fix the systemic rot it’s experienced since the USSR collapsed.
For a while they were also able to get oil for absurdly low prices from Venezuela in exchange for medical personnel, espionage tactics and security for Chavez/Maduro, but as Venezuela has faltered a lot of those guarantees have disappeared as well.
Cuba’s biggest friends - Russia, Venezuela, etc - have not had a great year.
I’d give a lot of credit towards the street protests for that.
Back in the mid-to-late 2010s, there were a ton of riots and anti-government protests and crazy stories about what was going on there, but as Maduro consolidated power it became clear that the protests weren’t working and they fizzled out.
Combine that with Guaido running out of steam and the opposition’s attempts to remove Maduro from power fizzling out and it just kinda became stale news.
However, yeah, the conditions have not gotten any better on the ground and the plight of the average Venezuelan is not good.
That's all true, and yet Cuba got worse after La Revolucion, and today, people from SA flock to the capitalist USA because they know their lives will be better there.
Especially when you consider the fact that America is richer than Cuba BECAUSE of the atrocities it has committed.
Global imperialism and liberal hegemony have done incredibly damage to the world, but they’re very profitable.
That alone is an indictment of the American system, imho.
American Unipolarity is keeping the global south impoverished.
Cuba is a poor island nation which has been under economic sanctions from the world’s largest economy for decades.
The fact that they have endured this, as well as efforts by the CIA and US government such as the Bay of Pigs invasion or Operation Mongoose terror attacks is frankly incredibly impressive.
It is an imperfect country with an imperfect system, however the improvement to nationwide literacy rates post revolution speaks to their massive improvements to equality.
They also have the most doctors per capita of any nation, and send medical aid globally when other nations experience disasters.
Cuba is imperfect, but I wish we would end our embargo upon them and stop making their economic conditions worse.
Not to mention, people are allowed to leave Cuba, the reason they come to the US on sketchy rafts is because it is against US law for them to come here, not because Cuba won’t let them leave.
The problem I see is that those same people trying to leave, when they get here, and get government assistance to get back on their feet, and then use the system to better their lives, after they are set and comfortable, they go ahead and plan a trip to Cuba to show off the stuff they aquire here.
Not one trip, oh no, they go multiple times over and over.
Why leave so badly to then return.
Makes.
No sense.
I was born there, left 45 yrs ago and have never gone back.
Never sent money and will never do until that Country decides to free itself by force from their own people looking for freedom or it does it peacefully.