For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically.
Please if you have any questions or concerns.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications.
If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
That’s what communities are for.
You’re suppose to take care of each other and as a whole.
I’m also not an extremist.
I don’t know where I fit on the political spectrum but I think that yes we should have order and law.
And basic community necessities but I don’t think government should control what’s taught in schools, what plants you can and can’t grow, what you can and can’t say or do, where you live or how, And what you can or can’t have.
And I don’t think they should be able to access our cameras or our info whenever the fuck they want.
Im just done with corruption period.
Small corruption can be dealt with.
When the the ones that control everything are corrupt that’s a problem.
And it’s a problem.
The people should have more control.
And I also think capitalism plays a big part in forced control but that’s a different story.
(just look up why monopoly was invented) As long as you’re not physically negatively effecting others you should be left alone.
Now I’m not republican or democrat but the research I’ve done shows republicans want freedom (guns, property, ect) and little to no government control, where Dems what more government involvement and control (such as healthcare ect) so I think the freedom part would be leaning more republican and republican also focus more on creating jobs then Dems who normalize Medicaid and gov assistance.
Just what I’ve noticed.
I always get confused when democrats start spouting republican views and vice versa like do you not know your own direction?
Or at least don’t label yourself a full dem or rep if you’re not going be able to get fact right one way or the other.
It’s weird seeing people say mean things about a group who’s views their backing unknowingly.
Do your research Join the libertarians.
Yes, join the libertarian, because who needs collective action?
Internet, roads, schools, police, emergency services, who needs ‘em?
All you need is your bootstraps!