Thank you, I appreciate your ELI5 (maybe ELI10) explanation.
I just heard that DeSantis canceled it because of "Queer theory" and I had never heard the term before, so I was confused.
However, when DeSantis talks queer theory, he is using it because the word “queer” invokes an emotional reaction with bigots and the intolerant.
The theories was also developed in the 70s, so it resonates with baby boomers still looking to crush some hippy heads.
When DeSantis says it, it has nothing to do with the actual theory.
He is basically taking volumes and decades of research and turning it into a Sunday cartoon except there’s no punchline.
It’s just queer bashing.
In higher ed, there are theories, kind of like different shades of glasses.
History is subjective, so people use theories to set up guidelines for analysis and discussion.
Think of it as guidelines that would put you and I in a box set up a fair debate.
The fact that anyone is listening to DeSantis about education is laughable.
When he briefly taught high school, he dabbled in grooming by going to his students’ parties and drinking with them.
Every time he talks about teachers as groomers, reporters should follow up with “do you think it is okay for teachers to drink with their students?” Every.
Time.
Very few scholars use a single theory in isolation.
Take for example the Civil War.
There are economic, social, and political issues that are intertwined.
So if a scholar says they want to analyze the impact of slavery on southern economics, they would establish which theories they would use to do so (economic, race, etc).
Queer theory came from gender studies in the 70s I think.
It’s one way to analyze gender as a construct of society.
Many theories from that time period are used today for culture wars.
Critical race theory is another one.
Racism is not natural.
You have to teach people TO be racist you do not have to teach people NOT to be racist.
The idea that school boards are trying to teach kids not to be racist should tell you that their thought process is centered around disguising their own disgusting thoughts as 'natural and curable'.
you have to take a strong stand against the racist policies that further chip away at quality of education and giving students ability to become critical thinkers.
It will be very hard to regain education levels once you reduce them to idiocy levels.
It is a very dangerous trend in far-right states.