“Centrists” aren’t vowing to never vote for another Democrat.
Those are Republicans.
In the past they might have identified as “fiscally conservative/socially liberal”, but make no mistake, they are not and were never centrists.
Republicans have misused and abused the "fiscally conservative" label for decades.
They claim they're being conservative by opposing the Dems whenever they want to do anything, but they spend more corporate welfare and bailouts than the Dems ever have, then they cut taxes on the wealthy and blame the Dems for trying to raise taxes just to pay off some of the GOP incurred debt.
Yep, it's a pattern in US politics that when the Republican Party has done something so unbelievably stupid that only the hardcore nuts would vote for them openly, the not-so-nutty contingent switches to "Independent" to hide that they're Republicans.
It's always: Republicans ruin the country, Democrats get elected and start to clean it up, people complain "Democrats aren't fixing it fast enough" and vote them out (which, in a two party system like this, means voting back in Republicans).
So the cycle continues (but getting worse each time)...
I found out something recently.
In the past 40 years, Democrats have only had complete control over White House and Congress TWICE.
2009-2011 and 1993-1995.
Both of those were after massive recessions that were caused by Republicans (especially since Republicans controlled both from 2003-2007 which directly lead to the 2008 housing crisis).
Both times they got the country turned around and going back in the right direction, but both times because they didn't do it "fast enough" they lost control the very next election cycle.
How does that make sense?
Edit: and Republicans also fully controlled the federal government from 2017-2019, which is one of the main reasons the covid pandemic hit so hard, because they cut all kinds of funding for the health organizations that were in place to stop such a thing, and they also crashed the economy in 2018 as well.
But yes, let's give them another chance to "be fair" or whatever, right?
Dumb.